Now Hooty the Owl is a glutton and is lazy .
`` Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk and Billy Mink are sure to bring somethink -LSB- Transcriber 's note : something ? -RSB-
I like , so what is the use of spending my time hunting for what someone else will get for me ? ''
said he to himself .
So Hooty the Owl went very early to the Lone Pine and hid among the thick branches where no one could see him .
Shadow the Weasel is sly and a thief and lives by his wits .
So because he had rather steal than be honest , he too went to the midnight spread with nothing but his appetite .
Now Reddy Fox is also a glutton and very , very crafty .
When he saw the plump duck brought by Billy Mink , his mouth watered , for Reddy Fox is very , very fond of young spring ducks .
So straightway he began to plan how he could get possession of Billy Mink 's duck .
And when Billy Mink saw the fat trout Little Joe Otter had brought , his eyes danced and his heart swelled with envy , for Billy Mink is very , very fond of fish .
At once he began to plan how he could secure that particular fat trout Little Joe Otter guarded so carefully .
Jimmy Skunk was quite contented with the eggs he had stolen from old Gray Goose -- that is , he was until he saw the plump chicken Reddy Fox had brought from Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Then suddenly his stomach became very empty , very empty indeed for chicken , and Jimmy Skunk began to think of a way to add the chicken of Reddy Fox to his own stolen eggs .
Because Reddy Fox is the largest he was given the place of honor at the head of the table under the Lone Pine .
On his right sat Little Joe Otter and on his left Jerry Muskrat .
Shadow the Weasel was next to Little Joe Otter , while right across from him was Jimmy Skunk .
Peter Rabbit was next , sitting opposite his cousin , Jumper the Hare .
At the extreme end , facing Reddy Fox , sat Billy Mink , with the plump duck right under his sharp little nose .
Boomer the Nighthawk excused himself on the plea that he needed exercise to aid digestion , and as he had brought nothing to the feast , his excuse was politely accepted .
Reddy Fox is very , very cunning , and his crafty brain had been busily working out a plan to get all these good things for himself .
`` Little brothers of the Green Meadows , '' began Reddy Fox , `` we have met here to-night for a feast of brotherly love . ''
Reddy Fox paused a moment to look hungrily at Billy Mink 's duck .
Billy Mink cast a longing eye at Little Joe Otter 's trout , while Jimmy Skunk stole an envious glance at Reddy Fox 's chicken .
`` But there is one missing to make our joy complete , '' continued Reddy Fox .
`` Who has seen Bobby Coon ? ''
No one had seen Bobby Coon .
Somehow happy-go-lucky Bobby Coon had been overlooked when the invitations were sent out .
`` I move , '' continued Reddy Fox , `` that because Billy Mink runs swiftly , and because he knows where Bobby Coon usually is to be found , he be appointed a committee of one to find Bobby Coon and bring him to the feast . ''
Now nothing could have been less to the liking of Billy Mink , but there was nothing for him to do but to yield as gracefully as he could and go in search of Bobby Coon .
No sooner had Billy Mink disappeared down the Lone Little Path than Reddy Fox recalled a nest of grouse eggs he had seen that day under a big hemlock , and he proposed that inasmuch as Jimmy Skunk already wore stripes for having stolen a nest of eggs from Mrs. Grouse , he was just the one to go steal these eggs and bring them to the feast .
Of course there was nothing for Jimmy Skunk to do but to yield as gracefully as he could and go in search of the nest of eggs under the big hemlock .
No sooner had Jimmy Skunk started off than Reddy Fox remembered a big shining sucker Farmer Brown 's boy had caught that afternoon and tossed among the rushes beside the Smiling Pool .
Little Joe Otter listened and his mouth watered and watered until he could sit still no longer .
`` If you please , '' said Little Joe Otter , `` I 'll run down to the Smiling Pool and get that sucker to add to the feast . ''
No sooner was Little Joe Otter out of sight than Reddy Fox was reminded of a field of carrots on the other side of the Green Meadows .
Now Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare are very fond of tender young carrots and they volunteered to bring a supply for the feast .
So away they hurried with big jumps down the Lone Little Path and out across the Green Meadows .
No sooner were Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare fairly started than Reddy Fox began to tell of some luscious sweet apples he had noticed under a wild apple tree a little way back on the hill .
Now Jerry Muskrat is quite as fond of luscious sweet apples as of fresh-water clams , so quietly slipping away , he set out in quest of the wild apple tree a little way back on the hill .
No sooner was Jerry Muskrat lost in the black shadows than Reddy Fox turned to speak to Shadow the Weasel .
But Shadow the Weasel believes that a feast in the stomach is worth two banquets untasted , so while the others had been talking , he had quietly sucked dry the three big eggs stolen by Jimmy Skunk from old Gray Goose , and then because he is so slim and so quick and so sly , he slipped away without anyone seeing him .
So when Reddy Fox turned to speak to Shadow the Weasel , he found himself alone .
At least he thought himself alone , and he smiled a wicked , selfish smile as he walked over to Billy Mink 's duck .
He was thinking how smart he had been to get rid of all the others , and of how he would enjoy the feast all by himself .
As Reddy Fox stooped to pick up Billy Mink 's duck , a great shadow dropped softly , oh so softly , out of the Lone Pine down onto the plump chicken .
Then without the teeniest , weeniest bit of noise , it floated back into the Lone Pine and with it went the plump chicken .
Reddy Fox , still with his wicked , selfish smile , trotted back with Billy Mink 's duck , but he dropped it in sheer surprise when he discovered that his plump chicken had disappeared .
Now Reddy Fox is very suspicious , as people who are not honest themselves are very apt to be .
So he left Billy Mink 's duck where he had dropped it and trotted very , very softly up the Lone Little Path to try to catch the thief who had stolen his plump chicken .
No sooner was his back turned than down out of the Lone Pine floated the great shadow , and when a minute later Reddy Fox returned , Billy Mink 's duck had also disappeared .
Reddy Fox could hardly believe his eyes .
He did n't smile now .
He was too angry and too frightened .
Yes , Reddy Fox was frightened .
He walked in a big circle round and round the place where the plump chicken and the duck had been , and the more he walked , the more suspicious he became .
He wrinkled and wrinkled his little black nose in an effort to smell the intruder , but not a whiff could he get .
All was as still and peaceful as could be .
Little Joe Otter 's trout lay shining in the moonlight .
The big head of cabbage lay just where Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare had left it .
Reddy Fox rubbed his eyes to make sure that he was not dreaming and that the plump chicken and the duck were not there too .
Just then Bowser the Hound , over at Farmer Brown 's , bayed at the moon .
Reddy Fox always is nervous and by this time he was so fidgety that he could n't stand still .
When Bowser the Hound bayed at the moon Reddy Fox jumped a foot off the ground and whirled about in the direction of Farmer Brown 's house .
Then he remembered that Bowser the Hound is always chained up at night , so that he had nothing to fear from him .
After listening and looking a moment Reddy Fox decided that all was safe .
`` Well , '' said he to himself , `` I 'll have that fat trout anyway , '' and turned to get it .
But the fat trout he had seen a minute before shining in the moonlight had also disappeared .
Reddy Fox looked and looked until his eyes nearly popped out of his head .
Then he did what all cowards do -- ran home as fast as his legs could carry him .
Now of course Billy Mink did n't find Bobby Coon , and when he came back up the Lone Little Path he was very tired , very hungry and very cross .
And of course Jimmy Skunk failed to find the nest of Mrs. Grouse , and Little Joe Otter could find no trace of the shining big sucker among the rushes beside the Smiling Pool .
They also were very tired , very hungry and very cross .
When the three returned to the Lone Pine and found nothing there but the big head of cabbage , which none of them liked , the empty egg shells of old Gray Goose and Jerry Muskrat 's clams , they straightway fell to accusing each other of having stolen the duck and the fat trout and the eggs and began to quarrel dreadfully .
Pretty soon up came Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , who had failed to find the tender young carrots .
And up came Jerry Muskrat , who had found no luscious sweet apples .
`` Where is Reddy Fox ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
Sure enough , where was Reddy Fox ?
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jimmy Skunk stopped quarreling and looked at each other .
`` Reddy Fox is the thief ! ''
they cried all together .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare and Jerry Muskrat agreed that Reddy Fox must be the thief , and had sent them all away on false errands that he might have the feast all to himself .
So because there was nothing else to do , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter , tired and hungry and angry , started for their homes beside the Laughing Brook .
And Jimmy Skunk , also tired and hungry and angry , started off up the Crooked Little Path to look for some beetles .
But Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare sat down to enjoy the big head of cabbage , while close beside them sat Jerry Muskrat smacking his lips over his clams , they tasted so good .
Mother Moon looked down and smiled and smiled , for she knew that each had a clear conscience , for they had done no harm to anyone .
And up in the thick top of the great pine Hooty the Owl nodded sleepily , for his stomach was very full of chicken and duck and trout , although he had not been invited to the party .
And this is why Reddy Fox has no true friends on the Green Meadows .
III WHY PETER RABBIT 'S EARS ARE LONG The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were tired .
Ever since she had turned them out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows early that morning they had romped and played tag and chased butterflies while Old Mother West Wind herself went to hunt for a raincloud which had wandered away before it had watered the thirsty little plants who were bravely trying to keep the Green Meadows lovely and truly green .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun wore his broadest smile and the more he smiled the warmer it grew .
Mr. Sun is never thirsty himself , never the least little bit , or perhaps he would have helped Old Mother West Wind find the wandering raincloud .
The Merry Little Breezes threw themselves down on the edge of the Smiling Pool , where the rushes grow tall , and there they took turns rocking the cradle which held Mrs. Redwing 's four babies .
Pretty soon one of the Merry Little Breezes , peeping through the rushes , spied Peter Rabbit sitting up very straight on the edge of the Green Meadows .
His long ears were pointed straight up , his big eyes were very wide open and he seemed to be looking and listening with a great deal of curiosity .
`` I wonder why it is that Peter Rabbit has such long ears , '' said the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
replied a great , deep voice right behind him .
All the Merry Little Breezes jumped up and ran through the rushes to the very edge of the Smiling Pool .
There on a great green lily pad sat Great-Grandfather Frog , his hands folded across his white and yellow waistcoat and his green coat shining spick and span .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes all together , `` do tell us why it is that Peter Rabbit has such long ears . ''
Grandfather Frog cleared his throat .
He looked to the east and cleared his throat again .
Then he looked to the west , and cleared his throat .
He looked north and he looked south , and each time he cleared his throat , but said nothing .
Finally he folded his hands once more over his white and yellow waistcoat , and looking straight up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun he remarked in his very deepest Voice and to no one in particular : `` If I had four fat , foolish , green flies , it is just possible that I might remember how it happens that Peter Rabbit has such long ears . ''
Then up jumped all the Merry Little Breezes and away they raced .
Some of them went east , some of them went west , some of them went north , some of them went south , all looking for fat , foolish , green flies for Grandfather Frog .
By and by they came skipping back , one by one , to the edge of the Smiling Pool , each with a fat , foolish , green fly , and each stopping to give Mrs. Redwing 's cradle a gentle push .
When Grandfather Frog had swallowed all the fat , foolish , green flies brought by the Merry Little Breezes , he settled himself comfortably on his big lily pad once more and began : `` Once upon a time , very long ago , when the world was young , Mr. Rabbit -- not our Peter Rabbit , but his grandfather a thousand times removed -- had short ears like all the other meadow people , and also his four legs were all of the same length , just exactly the same length .
`` Now Mr. Rabbit had a great deal of curiosity , a very great deal , indeed .
He was forever pushing his prying little nose into other people 's affairs , which , you know , is a most unpleasant habit .
In fact , Mr. Rabbit had become a nuisance . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Mr. Rabbit had a great deal of curiosity , a very great deal , indeed . -RSB-
`` Whenever Billy Mink stopped to pass the time of day with Jerry Muskrat they were sure to find Mr. Rabbit standing close by , listening to all they said .
If Johnny Chuck 's mother ran over to have a few minutes ' chat with Jimmy Skunk 's mother , the first thing they knew Mr. Rabbit would be squatting down in the grass right behind them .
`` The older he grew the worse Mr. Rabbit became .
He would spend his evenings going from house to house , tiptoeing softly up to the windows to listen to what the folks inside were saying .
And the more he heard the more Mr. Rabbit 's curiosity grew .
`` Now , like most people who meddle in other folks ' affairs , Mr. Rabbit had no time to tend to his own business .
His cabbage patch grew up to weeds .
His house leaked , his fences fell to pieces , and altogether his was the worst looking place on the Green Meadows .
`` Worse still , Mr. Rabbit was a trouble maker .
He just could n't keep his tongue still .
And like most gossips , he never could tell the exact truth .
`` Dear me !
dear me ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , shaking his head solemnly .
`` Things had come to a dreadful pass on the Green Meadows .
Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon never met without fighting .
Jimmy Skunk and Johnny Chuck turned their backs on each other .
Jerry Muskrat , Little Joe Otter , and Billy Mink called each other bad names .
All because Mr. Rabbit had told so many stories that were not true .
`` Now when old Mother Nature visited the Green Meadows she soon saw what a dreadful state all the meadow people were in , and she began to inquire how it all came about . ''
` It 's all because of Mr. Rabbit , ' said Reddy Fox . ''
` No one is to blame but Mr. Rabbit , ' said Striped Chipmunk .
`` Everywhere old Mother Nature inquired it was the same -- Mr. Rabbit , Mr. Rabbit , Mr. Rabbit .
`` So then old Mother Nature sent for blustering great Mr. North Wind , who is very strong .
And she sent for Mr. Rabbit .
`` Mr. Rabbit trembled in his shoes when he got old Mother Nature 's message .
He would have liked to run away and hide .
But he did not dare do that , for he knew that there was nowhere he could hide that Mother Nature would not find him sooner or later .
And besides , his curiosity would give him no peace .
He just had to know what old Mother Nature wanted .
`` So Peter Rabbit put on his best suit , which was very shabby , and set out for the Lone Pine to see what old Mother Nature wanted .
When he got there , he found all the little people of the Green Meadows and all the little folks of the Green Forest there before him .
There were Reddy Fox , Johnny Chuck , Striped Chipmunk , Happy Jack Squirrel , Mr. Black Snake , old Mr. Crow , Sammy Jay , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Spotty the Turtle , old King Bear , his cousin , Mr. Coon , and all the other little people .
`` When he saw all who had gathered under the Lone Pine , and how they all looked crossly at him , Mr. Rabbit was so frightened that his heart went pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat , and he wanted more than ever to run away .
But he did n't dare to .
No , Sir , he did n't dare to .
And then he was so curious to know what it all meant that he would n't have run if he had dared .
`` Old Mother Nature made Mr. Rabbit sit up on an old log where all could see him .
Then in turn she asked each present who was the cause of all the trouble on the Green Meadows .
And each in turn answered ` Mr. Rabbit . ' ''
` Mr. Rabbit , ' said old Mother Nature , ` you are lazy , for your cabbage patch has all gone to weeds .
You are shiftless , for your house leaks .
You are a sneak , for you creep up where you are not wanted and listen to things which do not concern you .
You are a thief , for you steal the secrets of others .
You are a prevaricator , for you tell things which are not so .
Mr. Rabbit , you are all these -- a lazy , shiftless sneak , thief and prevaricator . '
`` It was dreadful .
Mother Nature paused , and Mr. Rabbit felt oh so ashamed .
He did not look up , but he felt , he just felt , all the eyes of all the little meadow people and forest folk burning right into him .
So he hung his head and two great tears fell splash , right at his feet .
You see Mr. Rabbit was n't altogether bad .
It was just this dreadful curiosity .
`` Old Mother Nature knew this and down in her heart she loved Mr. Rabbit and was oh so sorry for him . ''
` Mr. Rabbit , ' continued old Mother Nature , ` because your curiosity is so great , your ears shall be made long , that every one who sees you may know that it is not safe to talk when you are near .
Because you are a sneak and steal up to people unseen , your-hind legs shall be made long , so that whenever you sit up straight you will be tall and every one can see you , and whenever you run , you will go with great jumps , and every one will know who it is running away .
And because you are shiftless and your house leaks , you will hereafter live in a hole in the ground . '
`` Then old Mother Nature took Mr. Rabbit by his two ears and big , strong Mr. North Wind took Peter Rabbit by his hind legs , and they both pulled .
And when they put him down Peter Rabbit 's ears and his hind legs were long , many times longer than they used to be .
When he tried to run away to hide his shame , he found that the only way he could go was with great jumps , and you may be sure he jumped as fast as he could .
`` And ever since that long ago time , when the world was young , rabbits have had long ears and long hind legs , all because of the curiosity of their grandfather a thousand times removed .
And now you know why Peter Rabbit 's ears are long , and why he is always sitting up and listening , '' concluded Great-Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
shouted all the Merry Little Breezes , and raced away to help old Mother West Wind drive up the wandering raincloud , which she had found at last .
IV REDDY FOX DISOBEYS On the brow of the hill by the Lone Pine sat Reddy Fox .
Every few moments he pointed his little black nose up at the round , yellow moon and barked .
Way over across the broad White Meadows , which in summer time are green , you know , in the dooryard of Farmer Brown 's house , Bowser the Hound sat and barked at the moon , too .
`` Yap-yap-yap , '' barked Reddy Fox , as loud as he could .
`` Bow-wow-wow , '' said Bowser the Hound in his deepest voice .
Then both would listen and watch the million little stars twinkle and twinkle in the frosty sky .
Now just why Reddy Fox should bark at the moon he did not know .
He just had to .
Every night for a week he had sat at the foot of the Lone Pine and barked and barked until his throat was sore .
Every night old Mother Fox had warned him that noisy children would come to no good end , and every night Reddy had promised that he would bark no more .
But every night when the first silver flood of witching light crept over the hill and cast strange shadows from the naked branches of the trees , Reddy forgot all about his promise .
Deep down under his little red coat was a strange feeling which he could not explain .
He simply must bark , so up to the Lone Pine he would go and yap and yap and yap , until all the little meadow people who were not asleep knew just where Reddy Fox was .
Bowser the Hound knew , too , and he made up his mind that Reddy Fox was making fun of him .
Now Bowser did not like to be made fun of any more than little boys and girls do , and he made up his mind that if ever he could break his chain , or that if ever Farmer Brown forgot to chain him up , he would teach Reddy Fox a lesson that Reddy would never forget .
`` Yap-yap-yap , '' barked Reddy Fox , and then listened to hear Bowser 's deep voice reply .
But this time there was no reply .
Reddy listened , and listened , and then tried it again .
Way off on a distant hill he could hear Hooty the Owl .
Close by him Jack Frost was busy snapping sticks .
Down on the White Meadows he could see Jimmy Skunk prowling about .
Once he heard a rooster crow sleepily in Farmer Brown 's hen-house , but he thought of Bowser the Hound , and though his mouth watered , he did not dare risk a closer acquaintance with the big dog .
So he sat still and barked , and pretty soon he forgot all else but the moon and the sound of his own voice .
Now Bowser the Hound had managed to slip his collar .
`` Aha , '' thought Bowser , `` now I 'll teach Reddy Fox to make fun of me , '' and like a shadow he slipped through the fence and across the White Meadows towards the Lone Pine .
Reddy Fox had just barked for the hundreth time when he heard a twig crack just back of him .
It had a different sound from the noisy crack of Jack Frost , and Reddy stopped a yap right in the middle and whirled about to see what it might be .
There was Bowser the Hound almost upon him , his eyes flashing fire , his great , red jaws wide open , and every hair on his back bristling with rage .
Reddy Fox did n't wait to say `` Good evening , '' or to see more .
Oh , no !
He turned a back somersault and away he sped over the hard , snowy crust as fast as his legs could carry him .
Bowser baying at the moon he liked to hear , but Bowser baying at his heels was another matter , and Reddy ran as he had never run before .
Down across the White Meadows he sped , Bowser frightening all the echoes with the roar of his big voice as he followed in full cry .
How Reddy did wish that he had minded Mother Fox !
How safe and snug and warm was his home under the roots of the old hickory tree , and how he did wish that he was safely there !
But it would never do to go there now , for that would tell Bowser where he lived , and Bowser would take Farmer Brown there , and that would be the end of Reddy Fox and of Mother Fox and of all the brother and sister foxes .
So Reddy twisted and turned , and ran this way and ran that way , and the longer he ran , the shorter his breath grew .
It was coming in great pants now .
His bushy tail , of which he was so proud , had become very heavy .
How Reddy Fox did wish and wish that he had minded Mother Fox !
He twisted and turned , and doubled this way and that way , and all the time Bowser the Hound got closer and closer .
Now way off on the hill behind the White Meadows Mother Fox had been hunting for her supper .
She had heard the `` Yap-yap-yap '' of Reddy Fox as he barked at the moon , and she had heard Bowser baying over in the barnyard of Farmer Brown .
Then she had heard the `` yap '' of Reddy Fox cut short in the middle and the roar of Bowser 's big voice as he started to chase Reddy Fox .
She knew that Reddy could run fast , but she also knew that Bowser the Hound had a wonderful nose , and that Bowser would never give up .
So Mother Fox pattered down the Crooked Little Path onto the White Meadows , where she could see the chase .
When she got near enough , she barked twice to tell Reddy that she would help him .
Now Reddy Fox was so tired that he was almost in despair when he heard Mother Fox bark .
But he knew that Mother Fox was so wise , and she had so often fooled Bowser the Hound , that if he could hold out just a little longer she would help him .
So for a few minutes he ran faster than ever and he gained a long way on Bowser the Hound .
As he passed a shock of corn that had been left standing on the White Meadows , Mother Fox stepped out from behind it .
`` Go home , Reddy Fox , '' said she , sharply , `` go home and stay there until I come . ''
Then she deliberately sat down in front of the shock of corn to wait until Bowser the Hound should come in sight .
Now Bowser the Hound kept his eyes and nose on the track of Reddy Fox , looking up only once in a while to see where he was going , so he did not see Reddy Fox slip behind the corn shock , and when he did look up , he saw only Mother Fox sitting there waiting for him .
Now Bowser the Hound thinks slowly .
When he saw old Mother Fox sitting there , he did not stop to think that it was not Reddy Fox whom he had been following , or he would have known better than to waste his time following old Mother Fox .
He would have just hunted around until he had found where Reddy had gone to .
But Bowser the Hound thinks slowly .
When he saw old Mother Fox sitting there , he thought it was Reddy Fox and that now he had him .
With a great roar of his big voice , he sprang forward .
Mother Fox waited until he was almost upon her , then springing to one side , she trotted off a little way .
At once Bowser the Hound started after her .
She pretended to be very tired .
Every time he rushed forward she managed to just slip out of his grasp .
Little by little she led him across the White Meadows back towards Farmer Brown 's barnyard .
Pretty soon old Mother Fox began to run as fast as she could , and that is very fast indeed .
She left Bowser the Hound a long , long way behind .
When she came to a stone wall she jumped up on the stone wall and ran along it , just like a squirrel .
Every once in a while she would make a long jump and then trot along a little way again .
She knew that stones do not carry the scent well , and that Bowser the Hound would have hard work to smell her on the stone wall .
Way down at the end of the pasture an old apple tree stretched a long limb out towards the stone wall .
When she got opposite to this she jumped onto this long limb and ran up into the tree .
There in the crotch , close to the trunk , she sat and watched .
Bowser the Hound , making a tremendous noise , followed her trail up to the stone wall .
Then he was puzzled .
He sniffed this way , and he sniffed that way , but he could not tell where Mother Fox had disappeared to .
He looked up at old Mother Moon and bayed and bayed , but old Mother Moon did not help him a bit .
Then he jumped over the stone wall and looked , and looked , and smelled , and smelled , but no track of Mother Fox could he find .
Then he ran up along the stone wall a little way , and then down along the stone wall a little way , but still he could not find a track of Mother Fox .
The longer he hunted , the angrier he grew .
Old Mother Fox , sitting in the apple tree , watched him and laughed and laughed to herself .
Then when she grew tired of watching him , she made a long jump out into the field and trotted off home to punish Reddy Fox for his disobedience .
When she got there she found Reddy Fox very much ashamed , very tired and very sorrowful , and since that time Reddy Fox has never barked at the moon .
V STRIPED CHIPMUNK 'S POCKETS It was one of Striped Chipmunk 's busy days .
Every day is a busy day with Striped Chipmunk at this season of the year , for the sweet acorns are ripe and the hickory nuts rattle down whenever Old Mother West Wind shakes the trees , while every night Jack Frost opens chestnut burrs just to see the squirrels scamper for the plump brown nuts the next morning .
So Striped Chipmunk was very busy , very busy indeed !
He whisked in and out of the old stone wall along one edge of the Green Meadows .
Back and forth , back and forth , sometimes to the old hickory tree , sometimes to the hollow chestnut tree , sometimes to the great oak on the edge of the Green Forest Striped Chipmunk scampered .
Old Mother West Wind , coming down from the Purple Hills very early in the morning , had found Striped Chipmunk up before her and hard at work .
Later , when jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had climbed up into the sky , the Merry Little Breezes had spied Striped Chipmunk whisking along the old stone wall and had raced over to play with him , for the Merry Little Breezes are very fond of Striped Chipmunk .
They got there just in time to see him disappear under a great stone in the old wall .
In a minute he was out again and off as fast as he could go to the old hickory tree .
`` Oh , Striped Chipmunk , come play with us , '' shouted the Merry Little Breezes , running after him .
But Striped Chipmunk just flirted his funny little tail and winked with both his bright eyes at them .
`` Busy !
busy !
busy ! ''
said Striped Chipmunk , hurrying along as fast as his short legs could take him .
The Merry Little Breezes laughed , and one of them , dancing ahead , pulled the funny little tail of Striped Chipmunk .
`` It 's a beautiful day ; do come and play with us , '' cried the Merry Little Breeze .
But Striped Chipmunk flirted his tail over his back once more .
`` Busy !
busy !
busy ! ''
he shouted over his shoulder and ran faster than ever .
In a few minutes he was back again , but such a queer-looking fellow as he was !
His head was twice as big as it had been before and you would hardly have known that it was Striped Chipmunk but for the saucy way he twitched his funny little tail and the spry way he scampered along the old stone wall .
`` Oh , Striped Chipmunk 's got the mumps ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
But Striped Chipmunk said never a word .
He could n't .
He ran faster than ever until he disappeared under the big stone .
When he popped his head out again he was just his usual saucy little self .
`` Say , Striped Chipmunk , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , rushing over to him , `` tell us how you happen to have pockets in your cheeks . ''
But Striped Chipmunk just snapped his bright eyes at them and said `` Busy !
busy !
busy ! ''
as he scuttled over to the hollow chestnut tree .
The Merry Little Breezes saw that it was no use at all to try to tempt Striped Chipmunk to play with them or to answer questions .
`` I tell you what , '' cried one , `` let 's go ask Great-Grandfather Frog how Striped Chipmunk happens to have pockets in his cheeks .
He 'll know . ''
So away they started , after they had raced over to the big hollow chestnut tree and sent a shower of brown nuts rattling down to Striped Chipmunk from the burrs that Jack Frost had opened the night before .
`` Good-bye , Striped Chipmunk , '' they shouted as they romped across the Green Meadows .
And Striped Chipmunk stopped long enough to shout `` Good-bye '' before he filled his pockets with the brown nuts .
Old Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily pad blinking in the sun .
It was very still , very , very still indeed .
Suddenly out of the brown bulrushes burst the Merry Little Breezes and surrounded old Grandfather Frog .
And every one of them had brought to him a fat , foolish , green fly .
Grandfather 's big goggly eyes sparkled and he gave a funny little hop up into the air as he caught each foolish green fly .
When the last one was safely inside his white and yellow waistcoat he settled himself comfortably on the big green lily pad and folded his hands over the foolish green flies .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` What is it you want this morning ? ''
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , `` tell us how it happens that Striped Chipmunk has pockets in his cheeks .
Do tell us , Grandfather Frog .
Please do ! ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` How should I know ? ''
`` But you do know , Grandfather Frog , you know you do .
Please tell us ! ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes as they settled themselves among the rushes .
And presently Grandfather Frog began : `` Once upon a time -- a long , long while ago -- '' `` When the world was young ? ''
asked a mischievous little Breeze .
Grandfather Frog pretended to be very much put out by the interruption , and tried to look very severe .
But the Merry Little Breezes were all giggling , so that presently he had to smile too .
`` Yes , '' said he , `` it was when the world was young , before old King Bear became king .
Mr. Chipmunk , Striped Chipmunk 's great-great-great-grandfather a thousand times removed , was the smallest of the squirrels , just as Striped Chipmunk is now .
But he did n't mind that , not the least little bit .
Mr. Gray Squirrel was four times as big and had a handsome tail , Mr. Fox Squirrel was four times as big and he also had a handsome tail , Mr. Red Squirrel was twice as big and he thought his tail was very good to see .
But Mr. Chipmunk did n't envy his big cousins their fine tails ; not he !
You see he had himself a beautiful striped coat of which he was very proud and which he thought much more to be desired than a big tail .
`` So Mr. Chipmunk went his way happy and contented and he was such a merry little fellow and so full of fun and cut such funny capers that everybody loved Mr. Chipmunk .
`` One day , when the nights were cool and all the trees had put on their brilliant colors , old Mother Nature sent word down across the Green Meadows that every squirrel should gather for her and store away until she came a thousand nuts .
Now the squirrels had grown fat and lazy through the long summer , all but Mr. Chipmunk , who frisked about so much that he had no chance to grow fat .
`` Mr. Gray Squirrel grumbled .
Mr. Fox Squirrel grumbled .
Mr. Red Squirrel grumbled .
But they did n't dare disobey old Mother Nature , so they all set out , each to gather a thousand nuts .
And Mr. Chipmunk alone was pleasant and cheerful .
`` When they reached the nut trees , what do you suppose they discovered ?
Why , that they had been so greedy that they had eaten most of the nuts and it was going to be hard work to find and store a thousand nuts for old Mother Nature .
Then they began to hurry , did Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel , each trying to make sure of his thousand nuts .
They quarreled and they fought over the nuts on the ground and even up in the trees .
And because they were so big and so strong , they pushed Mr. Chipmunk this way and they pushed him that way and often just as he was going to pick up a fat nut one of them would knock him over and make off with the prize .
`` Poor Mr. Chipmunk kept his temper and was as polite as ever , but how he did work !
His cousins are great climbers and could get the nuts still left on the trees , but Mr. Chipmunk is a poor climber , so he had to be content with those on the ground .
Of course he could carry only one nut at a time and his legs were so short that he had to run as fast as ever he could to store each nut in his secret store-house and get back for another .
And while the others quarreled and fought , he hurried back and forth , back and forth , from early morning until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun pulled his night cap on behind the Purple Hills , hunting for nuts and putting them away in his secret store-house .
`` But the nuts grew scarcer and scarcer on the ground and harder to find , for the other squirrels were picking them up too , and then they did not have so far to carry them .
`` Sometimes one of his cousins up in the trees would drop a nut , but Mr. Chipmunk never would take it , not even when he was having hard work to find any , ` for , ' said he to himself , ` if my cousin drops a nut , it is his nut just the same . '
`` Finally Mr. Gray Squirrel announced that he had got his thousand nuts .
Then Mr. Fox Squirrel announced that he had got his thousand nuts .
The next day Mr. Red Squirrel stopped hunting because he had his thousand nuts .
`` But Mr. Chipmunk had hardly more than half as many .
And that night he made a dreadful discovery -- some one had found his secret store-house and had stolen some of his precious nuts . ''
` It 's of no use to cry over what ca n't be helped , ' said Mr. Chipmunk , and the next morning he bravely started out again .
He had worked so hard that he had grown thinner and thinner until now he was only a shadow of his old self .
But he was as cheerful as ever and kept right on hunting and hunting for stray nuts .
Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel sat around and rested and made fun of him .
Way up in the tops of the tallest trees a few nuts still clung , but his cousins did not once offer to go up and shake them down for Mr. Chipmunk .
`` And then old Mother Nature came down across the Green Meadows .
First Mr. Gray Squirrel took her to his storehouse and she counted his thousand nuts .
Then Mr. Fox Squirrel led her to his storehouse and she counted his thousand nuts .
Then Mr. Red Squirrel showed her his store-house and she counted his thousand nuts .
`` Last of all Mr. Chipmunk led her to his secret store-house and showed her the pile of nuts he had worked so hard to get .
Old Mother Nature did n't need to count them to see that there were not a thousand there . ''
` I 've done the best I could , ' said Mr. Chipmunk bravely , and he trembled all over , he was so tired .
`` Old Mother Nature said never a word but went out on the Green Meadows and sent the Merry Little Breezes to call together all the little meadow people and all the little forest folks .
When they had all gathered before her she suddenly turned to Mr. Gray Squirrel . ''
` Go bring me a hundred nuts from your store-house , ' said she .
`` Then she turned to Mr. Fox Squirrel . ''
` Go bring me a hundred nuts from your store-house , ' said she .
`` Last of all she called Mr. Red Squirrel out where all could see him .
Mr. Red Squirrel crept out very slowly .
His teeth chattered and his tail , of which he was so proud , dragged on the ground , for you see Mr. Red Squirrel had something on his mind .
`` Then old Mother Nature told how she had ordered each squirrel to get and store for her a thousand nuts .
She told just how selfish Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel had been .
She told just how hard Mr. Chipmunk had worked and then she told how part of his precious store had been stolen . ''
` And there , ' said old Mother Nature in a loud voice so that every one should hear , ` there is the thief ! '
`` Then she commanded Mr. Red Squirrel to go to his store-house and bring her half of the biggest and best nuts he had there !
`` Mr. Red Squirrel sneaked off with his head hanging , and began to bring the nuts .
And as he tramped back and forth , back and forth , all the little meadow people and all the little forest folks pointed their fingers at him and cried ` Thief !
Thief !
Thief ! '
`` When all the nuts had been brought to her by Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel , old Mother Nature gathered them all up and put them in the secret store-house of Mr. Chipmunk .
Then she set Mr. Chipmunk up on an old stump where all could see him and she said : '' ` Mr. Chipmunk , because you have been faithful , because you have been cheerful , because you have done your best , henceforth you shall have two pockets , one in each cheek , so that you can carry two nuts at once , that you may not have to work so hard the next time I tell you to store a thousand nuts . '
`` And all the little meadow people and all the little forest folks shouted ` Hurrah for Mr. Chipmunk ! '
All but his cousins , Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel , who hid themselves for shame .
`` And ever since that time long ago , when the world was young , the Chipmunks have had pockets in their cheeks .
`` You ca n't fool old Mother Nature , '' concluded Great-Grandfather Frog .
`` No , Sir , you ca n't fool old Mother Nature and it 's no use to try . ''
`` Thank you , thank you , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , clapping their hands .
Then they all raced across the Green Meadows to shake down some more nuts for Striped Chipmunk .
VI REDDY FOX , THE BOASTER Johnny Chuck waddled down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck was very fat and rolly-poly .
His yellow brown coat fitted him so snugly that it seemed as if it must burst .
Johnny Chuck was feeling very happy -- very happy indeed , for you see Johnny Chuck long ago found the best thing in the world , which is contentment .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , looking down from the sky , smiled and smiled to see Johnny Chuck waddling down the Lone Little Path , for he loved the merry-hearted little fellow , as do all the little meadow people -- all but Reddy Fox , for Reddy Fox has not forgotten the surprise Johnny Chuck once gave him and how he called him a '' ` fraid cat . ''
Once in a while Johnny Chuck stopped to brush his coat carefully , for he is very particular about his appearance , is Johnny Chuck .
By and by he came to the old butternut tree down by the Smiling Pool .
He could see it a long time before he reached it , and up in the top of it he could see Blacky the Crow flapping his wings and cawing at the top of his voice .
`` There must be something going on , '' said Johnny Chuck to himself , and began to waddle faster .
He looked so very queer when he tried to hurry that jolly round , red Mr. Sun smiled more than ever .
When he was almost to the old butter-nut tree Johnny Chuck sat up very straight so that his head came just above the tall meadow grasses beside the Lone Little Path .
He could see the Merry Little Breezes dancing and racing under the old butternut tree and having such a good time !
And he could see the long ears of Peter Rabbit standing up straight above the tall meadow grasses .
One of the Merry Little Breezes spied Johnny Chuck .
`` Hurry up , Johnny Chuck ! ''
he shouted , and Johnny Chuck hurried .
When he reached the old butternut tree he was all out of breath .
He was puffing and blowing and he was so warm that he wished just for a minute , a single little minute , that he could swim like Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter , so that he could jump into the Smiling Pool and cool off .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello yourself , and see how you like it ! ''
replied Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello myself ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
And then because it was so very foolish everybody laughed .
It is a good thing to feel foolishly happy on a beautiful sunshiny day , especially down on the Green Meadows .
Jimmy Skunk was there .
He was feeling very , very good indeed , was Jimmy Skunk , for he had found some very fine beetles for his breakfast .
Little Joe Otter was there , and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Happy Jack Squirrel , and of course Reddy Fox was there .
Oh my , yes , of course Reddy Fox was there !
Reddy Fox never misses a chance to show off .
He was wearing his very newest red coat and his whitest waistcoat .
He had brushed his tail till it looked very handsome , and every few minutes he would turn and admire it .
Reddy Fox thought himself a very fine gentleman .
He admired himself and he wanted every one else to admire him .
`` Let 's do stunts , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I can jump farther than anybody here ! ''
Then Peter Rabbit jumped a tremendously long jump .
Then everybody jumped , everybody but Reddy Fox .
Even Johnny Chuck jumped , and because he was so rolly-poly he tumbled over and over and everybody laughed and Johnny Chuck laughed loudest of all .
And because his hind legs are long and meant for jumping Peter Rabbit had jumped farther than any one else .
`` I can climb to the top of the old butternut tree quicker than anybody else , '' cried Happy Jack Squirrel , and away he started with Bobby Coon and Billy Mink after him , for though Billy Mink is a famous swimmer and can run swiftly , he can also climb when he has to .
But Happy Jack Squirrel was at the top of the old butternut tree almost before the others had started .
The Merry Little Breezes clapped their hands and everybody shouted for Happy Jack Squirrel , everybody but Reddy Fox .
`` I can swim faster than anybody here , '' shouted Little Joe Otter .
In a flash three little brown coats splashed into the Smiling Pool so suddenly that they almost upset Great-Grandfather Frog watching from his big green lily pad .
They belonged to Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat .
Across the Smiling Pool and back again they raced and Little Joe Otter was first out on the bank .
`` Hurrah for Little Joe Otter ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow .
And everybody shouted `` Hurrah ! ''
Everybody but Reddy Fox .
`` What can you do , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit , dancing up and down , he was so excited .
Jimmy Skunk yawned lazily .
`` I can throw a wonderful perfume farther than anybody here , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` We know it !
We know it ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes as everybody tumbled heels over head away from Jimmy Skunk , even Reddy Fox .
`` But please do n't ! ''
And Jimmy Skunk did n't .
Then they all came back , Reddy Fox carefully brushing his handsome red coat which had become sadly mussed , he had fled in such a hurry .
Now for the first time in his life Johnny Chuck began to feel just a wee , wee bit discontented .
What was there he could do better than any one else ?
He could n't jump and he could n't climb and he could n't swim .
He could n't even run fast , because he was so fat and round and rolly-poly .
He quite forgot that he was so sunny-hearted and good-natured that everybody loved him , everybody but Reddy Fox .
Just then Reddy Fox began to boast , for Reddy Fox is a great boaster .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Reddy Fox , `` pooh !
Anybody could jump if their legs were made for jumping .
And what 's the good of climbing trees anyway ?
Now I can run faster than anybody here -- faster than anybody in the whole world ! ''
said Reddy Fox , puffing himself out .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` You ca n't beat Spotty the Turtle . ''
Then everyone shouted and rolled over and over in the grass , they were so tickled , for every one remembered how Spotty the Turtle had once won a race from Reddy Fox .
For a minute Reddy Fox looked very foolish .
Then he lost his temper , which is a very unwise thing to do , for it is hard to find again .
He swelled himself out until every hair stood on end and he looked twice as big as he did before .
He strutted up and down and glared at each in turn .
`` And I 'm not afraid of any living thing on the Green Meadows ! ''
boasted Reddy Fox .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Do I see Bowser the Hound ? ''
Every hair on Reddy Fox suddenly fell back into place .
He whirled about nervously and anxiously looked over the Green Meadows .
Then everybody shouted again and rolled over and over in the grass and held on to their sides , for you see Bowser the Hound was n't there at all .
But everybody took good care to keep away from Reddy Fox , everybody but Johnny Chuck .
He just sat still and chuckled and chuckled till his fat sides shook .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
demanded Reddy Fox .
`` I was just thinking , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` that though you can run so fast , you ca n't even catch me . ''
Reddy Fox just glared at him for a minute , he was so mad .
Then he sprang straight at Johnny Chuck .
`` I 'll show you ! ''
he snarled .
Now Johnny Chuck had been sitting close beside a hole that Grandfather Chuck had dug a long time before and which was empty .
In a flash Johnny Chuck disappeared head first in the hole .
Now the hole was too small for Reddy Fox to enter , but he was so angry that he straightway began to dig it larger .
My , how the sand did fly !
It poured out behind Reddy Fox in a stream of shining yellow .
Johnny Chuck ran down the long tunnel underground until he reached the end .
Then when he heard Reddy Fox digging and knew that he was really coming , Johnny Chuck began to dig , too , only instead of digging down he dug up towards the sunshine and the blue sky .
My , how his short legs did fly and his stout little claws dug into the soft earth !
His little forepaws flew so fast that if you had been there you could hardly have seen them at all .
And with his strong hind legs he kicked the sand right back into the face of Reddy Fox .
All the little meadow people gathered around the hole where Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox had disappeared .
They were very anxious , very anxious indeed .
Would Reddy Fox catch Johnny Chuck ?
And what would he do to him ?
Was all their fun to end in something terrible to sunny-hearted , merry Johnny Chuck , whom everybody loved ?
All of a sudden , pop !
right out of the solid earth among the daisies and buttercups , just like a jack-in-the-box , came Johnny Chuck !
He looked very warm and a little tired , but he was still chuckling as he scampered across to another hole of Grandfather Chuck 's .
By and by something else crawled out of the hole Johnny Chuck had made .
Could it be Reddy Fox ?
Where were his white waistcoat and beautiful red coat ?
And was that thing dragging behind him his splendid tail ?
He crept out of the hole and then just lay down and panted for breath .
He was almost too tired to move .
Then he began to spit sand out of his mouth and blow it out of his nose and try to wipe it out of his eyes .
The long hair of his fine coat was filled full of sand and no one would ever have guessed that this was Reddy Fox .
`` Haw !
haw !
haw ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow .
Then everybody shouted `` Haw !
haw !
haw ! ''
and began to roll in the grass and hold on to their sides once more ; everybody but Reddy Fox .
When he could get his breath he did n't look this way or that way , but just sneaked off to his home under the big hickory .
-LSB- Illustration : Then everybody shouted `` Haw !
haw !
haw ! '' -RSB-
And when Old Mother West Wind came with her big bag to take the Merry Little Breezes to their home behind the Purple Hills , Johnny Chuck waddled back up the Lone Little Path chuckling to himself , for that little feeling of discontent was all gone .
He had found that after all he could do something better than anybody else on the Green Meadows , for in his heart he knew that none could dig so fast as he .
VII JOHNNY CHUCK 'S SECRET Johnny Chuck pushed up the last bit of gravel from the hole he had dug between the roots of the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
He smoothed it down on the big , yellow mound he had made in front of his door .
Then he sat up very straight on top of the mound , brushed his coat , shook the sand from his trousers and carefully cleaned his hands .
After he had rested a bit , he turned around and looked at his new home , for that is what it was , although he had not come there to live yet , and no one knew of it , no one but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who , peeping between the branches of the old apple tree , had caught Johnny Chuck at work .
But he would n't tell , not jolly Mr. Sun !
Looking down from the blue sky every day he sees all sorts of queer things and he learns all kinds of secrets , does Mr. Sun , but he never , never tells .
No , Sir !
Mr. Sun never tells one of them , not even to Old Mother West Wind when at night they go down together behind the Purple Hills .
So jolly , round , red Mr. Sun just smiled and smiled when he discovered Johnny Chuck 's secret , for that is just what the new home under the apple tree was -- a secret .
Not even the Merry Little Breezes , who find out almost everything , had discovered it .
Johnny Chuck chuckled to himself as he planned a back door , a beautiful back door , hidden behind a tall clump of meadow grass where no one would think to look for a door .
When he had satisfied himself as to just where he would put it , he once more sat up very straight on his nice , new mound and looked this way and looked that way to be sure that no one was near .
Then he started for his old home along a secret little path he had made for himself .
Pretty soon he came to the Lone Little Path that went past his own home .
He danced and he skipped along the Lone Little Path , and , because he was so happy , he tried to turn a somersault .
But Johnny Chuck was so round and fat and rolly-poly that he just tumbled over in a heap .
`` Well , well , well !
What 's the matter with you ? ''
said a voice close beside him before he could pick himself up .
It was Jimmy Skunk , who was out looking for some beetles for his dinner .
Johnny Chuck scrambled to his feet and looked foolish , very foolish indeed .
`` There 's nothing the matter with me , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Johnny .
`` There 's nothing the matter with me .
It 's just because I 've got a secret . ''
`` A secret ! ''
cried Jimmy Skunk .
`` What is it ? ''
`` Yes , a secret , a really , truly secret , '' said Johnny Chuck , and looked very important .
`` Tell me , Johnny Chuck .
Come on , tell just me , and then we 'll have the secret together , '' begged Jimmy Skunk .
Now Johnny Chuck was so tickled with his secret that it seemed as if he must share it with some one .
He just could n't keep it to himself any longer .
`` You wo n't tell any one ? ''
said Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk promised that he would n't tell a soul .
`` Cross your heart , '' commanded Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk crossed his heart .
Then Johnny Chuck looked this way and looked that way to be sure that no one was listening .
Finally he whispered in Jimmy Skunk 's ear : `` I 've got a new home under the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows , '' said Johnny Chuck .
Of course Jimmy Skunk was very much surprised and very much interested , so Johnny Chuck told him all about it .
`` Now , remember , it 's a secret , '' said Johnny Chuck , as Jimmy Skunk started off down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows , to look for some beetles .
`` I 'll remember , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` And do n't tell ! ''
called Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk promised that he would n't tell .
Then Johnny Chuck started off up the Lone Little Path , whistling , and Jimmy Skunk trotted down the Lone Little Path onto the Green Meadows .
Jimmy Skunk was thinking so much about Johnny Chuck 's new home that he quite forgot to look for beetles , and he almost ran into Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` ca n't you see where you are going ?
It must be you have something on your mind ; what is it ? ''
`` I was thinking of Johnny Chuck 's new home , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Johnny Chuck 's new home ! ''
exclaimed Peter Rabbit .
`` Has Johnny Chuck got a new home ?
Where is it ? ''
`` Under the roots of the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows , '' said Jimmy Skunk , and then he clapped both hands over his mouth .
You see he had n't really meant to tell .
It just slipped out .
`` Oh , but it 's a secret ! ''
cried Jimmy Skunk .
`` It 's a secret , and you must n't tell .
I guess Johnny Chuck wo n't mind if you know , Peter Rabbit , but you must n't tell any one else . ''
Peter Rabbit promised he would n't .
Now Peter Rabbit is very inquisitive , very inquisitive indeed .
So as soon as he had parted from Jimmy Skunk he made up his mind that he must see the new home of Johnny Chuck .
So off he started as fast as he could go towards the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
Half way there he met Reddy Fox .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
Where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
asked Reddy Fox .
`` Over to the old apple tree to see Johnny Chuck 's new home , '' replied Peter Rabbit as he tried to dodge past Reddy Fox .
Then of a sudden he remembered and clapped both hands over his mouth .
`` Oh , but it 's a secret , Reddy Fox .
It 's a secret , and you must n't tell ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit .
But Reddy Fox would n't promise that he would n't tell , for in spite of his handsome coat and fine manners , Reddy Fox is a scamp .
And , besides , he has no love for Johnny Chuck , for he has not forgotten how Johnny Chuck once made him run and called him a '' ` fraid cat . ''
So when Reddy Fox left Peter Rabbit he grinned a wicked grin and hurried off to find Bobby Coon .
He met him on his way to the Laughing Brook .
Reddy Fox told Bobby Coon all about Johnny Chuck 's secret and then hurried away after Peter Rabbit , for Reddy Fox also is very inquisitive .
Bobby Coon went on down to the Laughing Brook .
There he met Billy Mink and told him about the new home Johnny Chuck had made under the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon Billy Mink met Little Joe Otter and told him .
Then Little Joe Otter met Jerry Muskrat and told him .
Jerry Muskrat saw Blacky the Crow and told him , and Great-Grandfather Frog heard him .
Blacky the Crow met his first cousin , Sammy Jay , and told him .
Sammy Jay met Happy Jack Squirrel and told him .
Happy Jack met his cousin , Striped Chipmunk , and told him .
Striped Chipmunk passed the house of old Mr. Toad and told him .
The next morning , very early , before Old Mother West Wind had come down from the Purple Hills , Johnny Chuck stole over to his new home to begin work on his new back door .
He had hardly begun to dig when he heard some one cough right behind him .
He whirled around and there sat Peter Rabbit looking as innocent and surprised as if he had really just discovered the new home for the first time .
`` What a splendid new home you have , Johnny Chuck ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Y -- e -- s , '' said Johnny Chuck , slowly .
`` It 's a secret , '' he added suddenly .
`` You wo n't tell , will you , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter Rabbit promised that he would n't tell .
Then Johnny Chuck felt better and went back to work as soon as Peter Rabbit left .
He had hardly begun , however , when some one just above him said : `` Good morning , Johnny Chuck . ''
Johnny Chuck looked up and there in the old apple tree sat Blacky the Crow and his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Just then there was a rustle in the grass and out popped Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk and Bobby Coon .
When Johnny Chuck had recovered from his surprise and looked over to the doorway of his new home there sat Reddy Fox on Johnny Chuck 's precious new mound .
It seemed as if all the little meadow people were there , all but Jimmy Skunk , who wisely stayed away .
`` We 've come to see your new home , '' said Striped Chipmunk , `` and we think it 's the nicest home we 've seen for a long time . ''
`` It 's so nicely hidden away , it 's really quite secret , '' said Reddy Fox , grinning wickedly .
Just then up raced the Merry Little Breezes and one of them had a message for Johnny Chuck from Great-Grandfather Frog .
It was this : `` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . ''
After every one had admired the new home , they said good-bye and scattered over the Green Meadows .
Then Johnny Chuck began to dig again , but this time he was n't making his new back door .
No indeed !
Johnny Chuck was digging at that new mound of yellow gravel of which he had been so proud .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun blinked to be sure that he saw aright , for Johnny Chuck was filling up his new home between the roots of the old apple tree .
When he got through , there was n't any new home .
Then Johnny Chuck brushed his coat carefully , shook the sand out of his trousers , wiped his hands and started off for his old home .
And this time he did n't take his special hidden path , for Johnny Chuck did n't care who saw him go .
Late that afternoon , Johnny Chuck sat on his old doorstep , with his chin in his hands , watching Old Mother West Wind gathering her Merry Little Breezes into the big bag in which she carries them to their home behind the Purple Hills . ''
` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . '
Now what did Grandfather Frog mean by that ? ''
thought Johnny Chuck .
`` Now I did n't tell anybody but Jimmy Skunk and Jimmy Skunk did n't tell anyone but Peter Rabbit and -- and -- '' Then Johnny Chuck began to chuckle and finally to laugh . ''
` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . '
My gracious , what a loud voice I must have had and did n't know it ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , wiping the tears of laughter from his eyes .
And the next day Johnny Chuck started to make a new home .
Where ?
Oh , that 's Johnny Chuck 's secret .
And no one but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun has found it out yet .
VIII JOHNNY CHUCK 'S GREAT FIGHT Johnny Chuck sat on the doorstep of his new home , looking away across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck felt very well satisfied with himself and with all the world .
He yawned lazily and stretched and stretched and then settled himself comfortably to watch the Merry Little Breezes playing down by the Smiling Pool .
By and by he saw Peter Rabbit go bobbing along down the Lone Little Path .
Lipperty , lipperty , lip , went Peter Rabbit and every other jump he looked behind him .
`` Now what is Peter Rabbit up to ? ''
said Johnny Chuck to himself , `` and what does he keep looking behind him for ? ''
Johnny Chuck sat up a little straighter to watch Peter Rabbit hop down the Lone Little Path .
Then of a sudden he caught sight of something that made him sit up straighter than ever and open his eyes very wide .
Something was following Peter Rabbit .
Yes , Sir , something was bobbing along right at Peter Rabbit 's heels .
Johnny Chuck forgot the Merry Little Breezes .
He forgot how warm it was and how lazy he felt .
He forgot everything else in his curiosity to learn what it could be following so closely at Peter Rabbit 's heels .
Presently Peter Rabbit stopped and sat up very straight and then -- Johnny Chuck nearly tumbled over in sheer surprise !
He rubbed his eyes to make sure that he saw aright , for there were two Peter Rabbits !
Yes , Sir , there were two Peter Rabbits , only one was very small , very small indeed .
`` Oh ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , `` that must be Peter Rabbit 's baby brother ! ''
Then he began to chuckle till his fat sides shook .
There sat Peter Rabbit with his funny long ears standing straight up , and there right behind him , dressed exactly like him , sat Peter Rabbit 's baby brother with his funny little long ears standing straight up .
When Peter Rabbit wiggled his right ear , his baby brother wiggled his right ear .
When Peter Rabbit scratched his left ear , his baby brother scratched his left ear .
Whatever Peter Rabbit did , his baby brother did too .
Presently Peter Rabbit started on down the Lone Little Path -- lipperty , lipperty , lip , and right at his heels went his baby brother -- lipperty , lipperty , lip .
Johnny Chuck watched them out of sight , and then he settled himself on his doorstep once more to enjoy a sun bath .
Every once in a while he chuckled to himself as he remembered how funny Peter Rabbit 's baby brother had looked .
Presently Johnny Chuck fell asleep .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had climbed quite high in the sky when Johnny Chuck awoke .
He yawned and stretched and stretched and yawned , and then he sat up to look over the Green Meadows .
Then he became wide awake , very wide awake indeed !
Way down on the Green Meadows he caught a glimpse of something red jumping about in the long meadow grass .
`` That must be Reddy Fox , '' thought Johnny Chuck .
`` Yes , it surely is Reddy Fox .
Now I wonder what mischief he is up to . ''
Then he saw all the Merry Little Breezes racing towards Reddy Fox as fast as they could go .
And there was Sammy Jay screaming at the top of his voice , and his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Happy Jack Squirrel was dancing up and down excitedly on the branch of an old elm close by .
Johnny Chuck waited to see no more , but started down the Lone Little Path to find out what it all was about .
Half way down the Lone Little Path he met Peter Rabbit running as hard as he could .
His long ears were laid flat back , his big eyes seemed to pop right out of his head , and he was running as Johnny Chuck had never seen him run before .
`` What are you running so for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` To get Bowser the Hound , '' shouted Peter Rabbit over his shoulder , as he tried to run faster .
`` Now what can be the matter ? ''
said Johnny Chuck to himself , `` to send Peter Rabbit after Bowser the Hound ? ''
He knew that , like all the other little meadow people , there was nothing of which Peter Rabbit was so afraid as Farmer Brown 's great dog , Bowser the Hound .
Johnny Chuck hurried down the Lone Little Path as fast as his short legs could take his fat , rolly-poly self .
Presently he came out onto the Green Meadows , and there he saw a sight that set every nerve in his round little body a-tingle with rage .
Reddy Fox had found Peter Rabbit 's baby brother and was doing his best to frighten him to death .
`` I 'm going to eat you now , '' shouted Reddy Fox , and then he sprang on Peter Rabbit 's baby brother and gave him a cuff that sent him heels over head sprawling in the grass .
`` Coward !
Coward , Reddy Fox ! ''
shrieked Sammy Jay .
`` Shame !
Shame ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` You 're nothing but a great big bully ! ''
yelled Blacky the Crow .
But no one did anything to help Peter Rabbit 's baby brother , for Reddy Fox is so much bigger than any of the rest of them , except Bobby Coon , that all the little meadow people are afraid of him .
But Reddy Fox just laughed at them , and nipped the long ears of Peter Rabbit 's little brother so hard that he cried with the pain .
Now all were so intent watching Reddy Fox torment the baby brother of Peter Rabbit that no one had seen Johnny Chuck coming down the Lone Little Path .
And for a few minutes no one recognized the furious little yellow-brown bundle that suddenly knocked Reddy Fox over and seized him by the throat .
You see it did n't look a bit like Johnny Chuck .
Every hair was standing on end , he was so mad , and this made him appear twice as big as they had ever seen him before .
`` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
shrieked Johnny Chuck as he shook Reddy Fox by the throat .
And then began the greatest fight that the Green Meadows had ever seen .
Now Johnny Chuck is not naturally a fighter .
Oh my , no !
He is so good-natured and so sunny-hearted that he seldom quarrels with any one .
But when he has to fight , there is n't a cowardly hair on him , not the teeniest , weeniest one .
No one ever has a chance to cry , '' ` Fraid cat !
Cry baby ! ''
after Johnny Chuck .
So though , like all the other little meadow people , he was usually just a little afraid of Reddy Fox , because Reddy is so much bigger , he forgot all about it as soon as he caught sight of Reddy Fox tormenting Peter Rabbit 's little brother .
He did n't stop to think of what might happen to himself .
He did n't stop to think at all .
He just gritted his teeth and in a flash had Reddy Fox on his back .
Such a fight was never seen before on the Green Meadows !
Reddy Fox is a bully and a coward , for he never fights with any one of his own size if he can help it , but when he has to fight , he fights hard .
And he certainly had to fight now .
`` Bully ! ''
hissed Johnny Chuck as with his stout little hind feet he ripped the bright red coat of Reddy Fox .
`` You great big bully ! ''
Over and over they rolled , Johnny Chuck on top , then Reddy Fox on top , then Johnny Chuck up again , clawing and snarling .
It seemed as if news of the fight had gone over all the Green Meadows , for the little meadow people came running from every direction -- Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Striped Chipmunk , Jimmy Skunk , old Mr. Toad .
Even Great-Grandfather Frog , who left his big lily pad , and came hurrying with great jumps across the Green Meadows .
They formed a ring around Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck and danced with excitement .
And all wanted Johnny Chuck to win .
Peter Rabbit 's poor little brother , so sore and lame from the knocking about from Reddy Fox , and so frightened that he hardly dared breathe , lay flat on the ground under a little bush and was forgotten by all but the Merry Little Breezes , who covered him up with some dead grass , and kissed him and whispered to him not to be afraid now .
How Peter Rabbit 's little brother did hope that Johnny Chuck would win !
His great , big , round , soft eyes were wide with terror as he thought of what might happen to him if Reddy Fox should whip Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox was n't whipping Johnny Chuck .
Try as he would , he could not get a good hold on that round , fat , little body .
And Johnny Chuck 's stout claws were ripping his red coat and white vest and Johnny Chuck 's sharp teeth were gripping him so that they could not be shaken loose .
Pretty soon Reddy Fox began to think of nothing but getting away .
Every one was shouting for Johnny Chuck .
Every time Reddy Fox was underneath , he would hear a great shout from all the little meadow people , and he knew that they were glad .
Now Johnny Chuck was round and fat and rolly-poly , and when one is round and fat and rolly-poly , one 's breath is apt to be short .
So it was with Johnny Chuck .
He had fought so hard that his breath was nearly gone .
Finally he loosed his hold on Reddy Fox for just a second to draw in a good breath .
Reddy Fox saw his chance , and , with a quick pull and spring , he broke away .
How all the little meadow people did scatter !
You see they were very brave , very brave indeed , so long as Johnny Chuck had Reddy Fox down , but now that Reddy Fox was free , each one was suddenly afraid and thought only of himself .
Jimmy Skunk knocked Jerry Muskrat flat in his hurry to get away .
Billy Mink trod on Great-Grandfather Frog 's big feet and did n't even say `` Excuse me . ''
Striped Chipmunk ran head first into a big thistle and squealed as much from fear as pain .
But Reddy Fox paid no attention to any of them .
He just wanted to get away , and off he started , limping as fast as he could go up the Lone Little Path .
Such a looking sight !
His beautiful red coat was in tatters .
His face was scratched .
He hobbled as he ran .
And just as he broke away , Johnny Chuck made a grab and pulled a great mouthful of hair out of the splendid tail Reddy Fox was so proud of .
When the little meadow people saw that Reddy Fox was actually running away , they stopped running themselves , and all began to shout : `` Reddy Fox is a coward and a bully !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
Then they crowded around Johnny Chuck and all began talking at once about his great fight .
Just then they heard a great noise up on the hill .
They saw Reddy Fox coming back down the Lone Little Path , and he was using his legs just as well as he knew how .
Right behind him , his great mouth open and waking all the echoes with his big voice , was Bowser the Hound .
You see , although Peter Rabbit could n't fight for his little baby brother and is usually very , very timid , he is n't altogether a coward .
Indeed , he had been very brave , very brave indeed .
He had gone up to Farmer Brown 's and had jumped right under the nose of Bowser the Hound .
Now that is something that Bowser the Hound never can stand .
So off he had started after Peter Rabbit .
And Peter Rabbit had started back for the Green Meadows as fast as his long legs could take him , for he knew that if once Bowser the Hound caught sight of Reddy Fox , he would forget all about such a little thing as a saucy rabbit .
Sure enough , half way down the Lone Little Path they met Reddy Fox sneaking off home , and , when Bowser the Hound saw him , he straightway forgot all about Peter Rabbit , and , with a great roar , started after Reddy Fox .
When Johnny Chuck had carefully brushed his coat and all the little meadow people had wished him good luck , he started off up the Lone Little Path for home , the Merry Little Breezes dancing ahead and Peter Rabbit coming lipperty , lipperty , lip behind , and right between them hopped Peter Rabbit 's little brother , who thought Johnny Chuck the greatest hero in the world .
When they reached Johnny Chuck 's old home , Peter Rabbit and Peter Rabbit 's little brother tried to tell him how thankful they were to him , but Johnny Chuck just laughed and said : `` It was nothing at all , just nothing at all . ''
When at last all had gone , even the Merry Little Breezes , Johnny Chuck slipped away to his new home , which is his secret , you know , which no one knows but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who wo n't tell .
`` I hope , '' said Johnny Chuck , as he stretched himself out on the mound of warm sand by his doorway , for he was very tired , `` I hope , '' said Johnny Chuck , sighing contentedly , `` that Reddy Fox got away from Bowser the Hound ! ''
And Reddy Fox did .
IX MR. TOAD 'S OLD SUIT Peter Rabbit was tired and very sleepy as he hopped along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
He could see Old Mother West Wind just emptying her Merry Little Breezes out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows to play all the bright summer day .
Peter Rabbit yawned and yawned again as he watched them dance over to the Smiling Pool .
Then he hopped on down the Crooked Little Path towards home .
Sammy Jay , sitting on a fence post , saw him coming .
`` Peter Rabbit out all night !
Oh my goodness what a sight !
Peter Rabbit , reprobate !
No good end will be your fate ! ''
shouted Sammy Jay .
Peter Rabbit ran out his tongue at Sammy Jay .
`` Who stole Happy Jack 's nuts ?
Thief !
Thief !
Thief ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit at Sammy Jay , and kept on down the Crooked Little Path .
It was true -- Peter Rabbit had been out all night playing in the moonlight , stealing a midnight feast in Farmer Brown 's cabbage patch and getting into mischief with Bobby Coon .
Now when most of the little meadow people were just waking up Peter Rabbit was thinking of bed .
Presently he came to a big piece of bark which is the roof of Mr. Toad 's house .
Mr. Toad was sitting in his doorway blinking at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who had just begun to climb up the sky .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Good morning , '' said Mr. Toad .
`` You 're looking very fine this morning , Mr. Toad , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm feeling very fine this morning , '' said Mr. Toad .
`` Why , my gracious , you have on a new suit , Mr. Toad ! ''
exclaimed Peter Rabbit .
`` Well , what if I have , Peter Rabbit ? ''
demanded Mr. Toad .
`` Oh , nothing , nothing , nothing at all , Mr. Toad , nothing at all , '' said Peter Rabbit hastily , `` only I did n't know you ever had a new suit .
What have you done with your old suit , Mr. Toad ? ''
`` Swallowed it , '' said Mr. Toad shortly , turning his back on Peter Rabbit .
And that was all Peter Rabbit could get out of Mr. Toad , so he started on down the Crooked Little Path .
Now Peter Rabbit has a great deal of curiosity and is forever poking into other people 's affairs .
The more he thought about it the more he wondered what Mr. Toad could have done with his old suit .
Of course he had n't swallowed it !
Who ever heard of such a thing !
The more he thought of it the more Peter Rabbit felt that he must know what Mr. Toad had done with his old suit .
By this time he had forgotten that he had been out all night .
He had forgotten that he was sleepy .
He had got to find out about Mr. Toad 's old suit .
`` I 'll just run over to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog .
He 'll surely know what Mr. Toad does with his old suits , '' said Peter Rabbit , and began to hop faster .
When he reached the Smiling Pool there sat Great-Grandfather Frog on his big green lily pad as usual .
There was a hungry look in his big goggly eyes , for it was so early that no foolish , green flies had come his way yet .
But Peter Rabbit was too full of curiosity in Mr. Toad 's affairs to notice this .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Good morning , '' replied Grandfather Frog a wee bit gruffly .
`` You 're looking very fine this morning , Grandfather Frog , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Not so fine as I 'd feel if I had a few fat , foolish , green flies , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` I 've just met your cousin , Mr. Toad , and he has on a new suit , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Indeed ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Well , I think it 's high time . ''
`` What does Mr. Toad do with his old suit , Grandfather Frog ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` Chug-a-rum !
It 's none of my business .
Maybe he swallows it , '' replied Grandfather Frog crossly , and turned his back on Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit saw that his curiosity must remain unsatisfied .
He suddenly remembered that he had been out all night and was very , very sleepy , so he started off home across the Green Meadows .
Now the Merry Little Breezes had heard all that Peter Rabbit and Grandfather Frog had said , and they made up their minds that they would find out from Grandfather Frog what Mr. Toad really did do with his old suit .
First of all they scattered over the Green Meadows .
Presently back they all came , each blowing ahead of him a fat , foolish , green fly .
Right over to the big green lily pad they blew the green flies .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , as each fat , foolish , green fly disappeared inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
When the last one was out of sight , all but a leg which was left sticking out of a corner of Grandfather Frog 's big mouth , one of the Merry Little Breezes ventured to ask him what became of Mr. Toad 's old suit .
Grandfather Frog settled himself comfortably on the big green lily pad and folded his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' began Grandfather Frog .
`` Once upon a time -- '' The Merry Little Breezes clapped their hands and settled themselves among the buttercups and daisies , for they knew that soon they would know what Mr. Toad did with his old suit .
`` Once upon a time , '' began Grandfather Frog again , `` when the world was young , old King Bear received word that old Mother Nature would visit the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Of course old King Bear wanted his kingdom and his subjects to look their very best , so he issued a royal order that every one of the little meadow people and every one of the little forest folk should wear a new suit on the day that old Mother Nature was to pay her visit .
`` Now like old King Bear , every one wanted to appear his very best before old Mother Nature , but as no one knew the exact day she was to come , every one began at once to wear his best suit , and to take the greatest care of it .
Old King Bear appeared every day in a suit of glossy black .
Lightfoot the Deer , threw away his dingy gray suit , and put on a coat of beautiful red and fawn .
Mr. Mink , Mr. Otter , Mr. Muskrat , Mr. Rabbit , Mr. Woodchuck , Mr. Coon , who you know was first cousin to old King Bear , Mr. Gray Squirrel , Mr. Fox Squirrel , Mr. Red Squirrel , all put on brand new suits .
Mr. Skunk changed his black and white stripes for a suit of all black , very handsome , very handsome indeed .
Mr. Chipmunk took care to see that his new suit had the most beautiful stripes to be obtained .
`` Mr. Jay , who was something of a dandy , had a wonderful new coat that looked for all the world as it if had been cut from the bluest patch of sky and trimmed with edging taken from the whitest clouds .
Even Mr. Crow and Mr. Owl took pains to look their very best .
`` But Mr. Toad could n't see the need of such a fuss .
He thought his neighbors spent altogether too much time and thought on dress .
To be sure he was anxious to look his best when old Mother Nature came , so he got a new suit all ready .
But Mr. Toad could n't afford to sit around in idleness admiring his new clothes .
No indeed !
Mr. Toad had too much to do .
He was altogether too busy .
He had a large garden to take care of , had Mr. Toad , and work in a garden is very hard on clothes .
So Mr. Toad just wore his old suit over his new one and went on about his business .
`` By and by the great day came when old Mother Nature arrived to inspect the kingdom of old King Bear .
All the little meadow people and all the little forest folk hastened to pay their respects to old Mother Nature and to strut about in their fine clothes -- all but Mr. Toad .
He was so busy that he did n't even know that old Mother Nature had arrived .
`` Late in the afternoon , Mr. Toad stopped to rest .
He had just cleared his cabbage patch of the slugs which threatened to eat up his crop and he was very tired .
Presently he happened to look up the road , and who should he see but old Mother Nature herself coming to visit his garden and to find out why Mr. Toad had not been to pay her his respects .
`` Suddenly Mr. Toad remembered that he had on his working clothes , which were very old , very dirty and very ragged .
For just a minute he did n't know what to do .
Then he dived under a cabbage leaf and began to pull off his old suit .
But the old suit stuck !
He was in such a hurry and so excited that he could n't find the buttons .
Finally he got his trousers off .
Then he reached over and got hold of the back of his coat and tugged and hauled until finally he pulled his old coat off right over his head just as if it were a shirt .
`` Mr. Toad gave a great sigh of relief as he stepped out in his new suit , for you remember that he had been wearing that new suit underneath the old one all the time .
`` Mr. Toad was very well pleased with himself until he thought how terribly untidy that ragged old suit looked lying on the ground .
What should he do with it ?
He could n't hide it in the garden , for old Mother Nature 's eyes are so sharp that she would be sure to see it .
What should he do ?
`` Then Mr. Toad had a happy thought .
Every one made fun of his big mouth .
But what was a big mouth for if not to use ?
He would swallow his old suit !
In a flash Mr. Toad dived under the cabbage leaf and crammed his old suit into his mouth .
`` When old Mother Nature came into the garden , Mr. Toad was waiting in the path to receive her .
Very fine he looked in his new suit and you would have thought he had been waiting all day to receive old Mother Nature , but for one thing -- swallow as much and as hard as he would , he could n't get down quite all of his old suit , and a leg of his trousers hung out of a corner of his big mouth .
`` Of course old Mother Nature saw it right away .
And how she did laugh !
And of course Mr. Toad felt very much mortified .
But Mother Nature was so pleased with Mr. Toad 's garden and with Mr. Toad 's industry that she quite overlooked the ragged trousers leg hanging from the corner of Mr. Toad 's mouth . ''
` Fine clothes arc not to be compared with fine work , ' said old Mother Nature . '
I herewith appoint you my chief gardener , Mr. Toad .
And as a sign that all may know that this is so , hereafter you shall always swallow your old suit whenever you change your clothes ! '
`` And from that day to this the toads have been the very best of gardeners .
And in memory of their great , great , great-grandfather a thousand times removed they have always swallowed their old suits .
`` Now you know what my cousin , old Mr. Toad , did with his old suit just before Peter Rabbit passed his house this morning , '' concluded Great-Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , `` thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
Then they raced away across the Green Meadows and up the Crooked Little Path to see if old Mr. Toad was gardening .
And Peter Rabbit still wonders what old Mr. Toad did with his old suit .
X GRANDFATHER FROG GETS EVEN Old Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily pad in the Smiling Pool dreaming of the days when the world was young and the frogs ruled the world .
His hands were folded across his white and yellow waistcoat .
Round , red , smiling Mr. Sun sent down his warmest rays on the back of Grandfather Frog 's green coat .
Very early that morning Old Mother West Wind , hurrying down from the Purple Hills on her way to help the white-sailed ships across the great ocean , had stopped long enough to blow three or four fat , foolish , green flies over to the big lily pad , and they were now safely inside the white and yellow waistcoat .
A thousand little tadpoles , the great , great-grandchildren of Grandfather Frog , were playing in the Smiling Pool , and every once in a while wriggling up to the big lily pad to look with awe at Grandfather Frog and wonder if they would ever be as handsome and big and wise as he .
And still old Grandfather Frog sat dreaming and dreaming of the days when all the frogs had tails and ruled the world .
Presently Billy Mink came hopping and skipping down the Laughing Brook .
Sometimes he swam a little way and sometimes he ran a little way along the bank , and sometimes he jumped from stone to stone .
Billy Mink was feeling very good -- very good indeed .
He had caught a fine fat trout for breakfast .
He had hidden two more away for dinner in a snug little hole no one knew of but himself .
Now he had nothing to do but get into mischief .
You can always depend upon Billy Mink to get into mischief .
He just ca n't help it .
So Billy Mink came hopping and skipping down the Laughing Brook to the Smiling Pool .
Then he stopped , as still as the rock he was standing on , and peeped through the bulrushes .
Billy Mink is very cautious , very cautious indeed .
He always looks well before he shows himself , that nothing may surprise him .
So Billy Mink looked all over the Smiling Pool and the grassy banks .
He saw the sunbeams dancing on the water .
He saw the tadpoles having such a good time in the Smiling Pool .
He saw the Merry Little Breezes kissing the buttercups and daisies on the bank , and he saw old Grandfather Frog with his hands folded across his white , and yellow waistcoat sitting on the green lily pad , dreaming of the days when the world was young .
Then Billy Mink took a long breath , a very long breath , and dived into the Smiling Pool .
Now , Billy Mink can swim very fast , very fast indeed .
For a little way he can swim even faster than Mr. Trout .
And he can stay under water a long time .
Straight across the Smiling Pool , with not even the tip of his nose out of water , swam Billy Mink .
The thousand little tadpoles saw him coming and fled in all directions to bury themselves in the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool , for when he thinks no one is looking Billy Mink sometimes gobbles up a fat tadpole for breakfast .
Straight across the Smiling Pool swam Billy Mink toward the big green lily pad where Grandfather Frog sat dreaming of the days when the world was young .
When he was right under the big green lily pad he suddenly kicked up hard with his hind feet .
Up went the big green lily pad , and , of course , up went Grandfather Frog -- up and over flat on his back , with a great splash into the Smiling Pool !
Now , Grandfather Frog 's mouth is very big .
Indeed , no one else has so big a mouth , unless it be his cousin , old Mr. Toad .
And when Grandfather Frog went over flat on his back , splash in the Smiling Pool , his mouth was wide open .
You see he was so surprised he forgot to close it .
So , of course , Grandfather Frog swallowed a great deal of water , and he choked and spluttered and swam around in foolish little circles trying to find himself .
Finally he climbed out on his big green lily pad .
-LSB- Illustration : He was so surprised he forgot to close it . -RSB-
`` Chug-a-rum ? ''
said Grandfather Frog , and looked this way and looked that way .
Then he gave a funny hop and turned about in the opposite direction and looked this way and looked that way , but all he saw was the Smiling Pool dimpling and smiling , Mrs. Redwing bringing a fat worm to her hungry little babies in their snug nest in the bulrushes , and the Merry Little Breezes hurrying over to see what the trouble might be .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` It is very strange .
I must have fallen asleep and had a bad dream . ''
Then he once more settled himself comfortably on the big green lily pad , folded his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat , and seemed to be dreaming again , only his big goggly eyes were not dreaming .
No , indeed !
They were very much awake , and they saw all that was going on in the Smiling Pool .
Great-Grandfather Frog was just pretending .
You may fool him once , but Grandfather Frog has lived so long that he has become very wise , and though Billy Mink is very smart , it takes some one a great deal smarter than Billy Mink to fool Grandfather Frog twice in the same way .
Billy Mink , hiding behind the Big Rock , had laughed and laughed till he had to hold his sides when Grandfather Frog had choked and spluttered and hopped about on the big lily pad trying to find out what it all meant .
He thought it such a good joke that he could n't keep it to himself , so when he saw Little Joe Otter coming to try his slippery slide he swam across to tell him all about it .
Little Joe Otter laughed and laughed until he had to hold his sides .
Then they both swam back to hide behind the Big Rock to watch until Grandfather Frog should forget all about it , and they could play the trick over again .
Now , out of the corner of one of his big goggly eyes , Grandfather Frog had seen Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter with their heads close together , laughing and holding their sides , and he saw them swim over behind the Big Rock .
Pretty soon one of the Merry Little Breezes danced over to see if Grandfather Frog had really gone to sleep .
Grandfather Frog did n't move , not the teeniest , weeniest bit , but he whispered something to the Merry Little Breeze , and the Merry Little Breeze flew away , shaking with laughter , to where the other Merry Little Breezes were playing with the buttercups and daisies .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes clapped their hands and laughed too .
They left the buttercups and daisies and began to play tag across the Smiling Pool .
Now , right on the edge of the Big Rock lay a big stick .
Pretty soon the Merry Little Breezes danced over to the Big Rock , and then , suddenly , all together they gave the big stick a push .
Off it went , and then such a splashing and squealing as there was behind the Big Rock !
In a few moments Little Joe Otter crept out beside his slippery slide and slipped away holding on to his head .
And , sneaking through the bulrushes , so as not to be seen , crawled Billy Mink , back towards his home on the Laughing Brook .
Billy Mink was n't laughing now .
Oh , no !
He was limping and he was holding on to his head .
Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink had been sitting right underneath the big stick .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog and held on to his sides and opened his mouth very wide in a noiseless laugh , for Grandfather Frog never makes a sound when he laughs .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog once more .
Then he folded his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat and began again to dream of the days when the frogs had long tails and ruled the world .
XI THE DISAPPOINTED BUSH Way down beside the Laughing Brook grew a little bush .
It looked a whole lot like other little bushes all around it .
But really it was quite different , as you shall see .
When in the spring warm , jolly , round Mr. Sun brought back the birds and set them singing , when the little flowers popped their heads out of the ground to have a look around , then all the little bushes put out their green leaves .
This little bush of which I am telling you put out its green leaves with the rest .
The little leaves grew bigger and bigger on all the little bushes .
By and by on some of the other little bushes , little brown buds began to appear and grow and grow .
Then on more and more of the little bushes the little brown buds came and grew and grew .
But on this little bush of which I am telling you no little brown buds appeared .
The little bush felt very sad indeed .
Pretty soon all the little brown buds on the other little brown bushes burst their brown coats , and then all the little bushes were covered with little flowers .
Some were white and some were yellow and some were pink ; and the air was filled with the sweet odor of all the little flowers .
It brought the bees from far , far away to gather the honey , and all the little bushes were very happy indeed .
But the little bush of which I am telling you had no little flowers , for you see it had had no little buds , and it felt lonely and shut away from the other little bushes , and very sad indeed .
But it bravely kept on growing and growing and growing .
Its little leaves grew bigger and bigger and bigger , and it tried its best not to mind because it had no little flowers .
Then one by one , and two by two , and three by three , and finally in whole showers , the little flowers of all the other little bushes fell off , and they looked very much like the little bush of which I am telling you , so that the little bush no longer felt sad .
All summer long all the little bushes grew and grew and grew .
The birds came and built their nests among them .
Peter Rabbit and his brothers and sisters scampered under them .
The butterflies flew over them .
By and by came the fall , and with the fall came Jack Frost .
He went about among the little bushes , pinching the leaves .
Then the little green leaves turned to brown and red and yellow and pretty soon they fluttered down to the ground , the Merry Little Breezes blew them about and all the little bushes were bare .
They had no leaves at all to cover their little naked brown limbs .
The little bush of which I am telling you lost its leaves with the rest .
But all the summer long this little bush had been growing some of those little brown buds , which the other bushes had had in the spring , and now , when all the other little bushes had lost all the green leaves , and had nothing at all upon their little brown twigs , behold !
one beautiful day , the little bush of which I am telling you was covered with gold , for each little brown bud had burst its little brown coat and there was a beautiful little yellow flower .
Such a multitude of these little yellow flowers !
They covered the little bush from top to bottom .
Then the little bush felt very happy indeed , for it was the only bush which had any flowers .
And every one who passed that way stopped to look at it and to praise it .
Colder grew the weather and colder .
Johnny Chuck tucked himself away to sleep all winter .
Grandfather Frog went deep , deep down in the mud , not to come out again until spring .
By and by the little yellow flowers dropped off the little bush , just as the other little flowers in spring had dropped off the other bushes .
But they left behind them tiny little packages , one for every little flower that had been on the bush .
All winter long these little packages clung to the little bush .
In the spring when the little leaves burst forth in all the little bushes , these little packages on the little bush of which I am telling you grew and grew and grew .
While the other little bushes had a lot of little flowers as they had had the year before , these little brown packages on the little bush of which I am telling you kept on growing .
And they comforted the little bush because it felt that it really had something worth while .
All the summer long the little brown packages grew and grew until they looked like little nuts .
When the fall came again and all the little leaves dropped off all the little bushes , and the little bush of which I am telling you was covered with another lot of little yellow flowers and was very happy , then these little brown nuts , one bright autumn day , suddenly popped open !
And out of each one flew two brown shiny little seeds .
You never saw such a popping and a snapping and a jumping !
Pop !
pop !
snap !
snap !
hippetty hop !
they went , faster than the corn pops in the corn popper .
Reddy Fox , who always is suspicious , thought some one was shooting at him .
Down on the ground fell the little brown shining seeds and tucked themselves into the warm earth under the warm leaves , there to stay all winter long .
And when the third spring came with all its little birds and all its little flowers and the warm sunshine , every one of these little brown seeds which had tucked themselves into the warm earth , burst its little brown skin , and up into the sunshine came a little green plant , which would grow and grow and grow , and by and by become just like the little bush I am telling you about .
When the little bush looked down and saw all these little green children popping out of the ground , it was very happy indeed , for it knew that it would no longer be lonely .
It no longer felt bad when all the other bushes were covered with flowers , for it knew that by and by when all the other little bushes had lost all their leaves and all their flowers , then would come its turn , and it knew that for a whole year its little brown children would be held safe on its branches .
Now , what do you think is the name of this little bush ?
Why , it is the witch hazel .
And sometime when you fall down and bump yourself hard grandma will go to the medicine closet and will bring out a bottle , and from that bottle she will pour something on that little sore place and it will make it feel better .
Do you know what it is ?
It is the gift of the witch hazel bush to little boys and big men to make them feel better when they are hurt .
XII WHY BOBBY COON WASHES HIS FOOD Happy-Go-Lucky Bobby Coon sat on the edge of the Laughing Brook just as round , red Mr. Sun popped up from behind the Purple Hills and Old Mother West Wind turned all her Merry Little Breezes out to romp on the Green Meadows .
Bobby Coon had been out all night .
You see Bobby Coon is very apt to get into mischief , and because usually it is safer to get into mischief under cover of the darkness Bobby Coon prefers the night wherein to go abroad .
Not that Bobby Coon is really bad !
Oh my , no !
Everybody likes Bobby Coon .
But he can no more keep out of mischief than a duck can keep out of water .
So Bobby Coon sat on the edge of the Laughing Brook and he was very busy , very busy indeed .
He was washing his breakfast .
Really , it was his dinner , for turning night into day just turns everything topsy-turvy .
So Bobby Coon eats dinner when most of the little meadow people are eating breakfast .
This morning he was very busy washing a luscious ear of sweet corn just in the milk .
He dipped it in the water and with one little black paw rubbed it thoroughly .
Then he looked it over carefully before , with a sigh of contentment , he sat down to put it in his empty little stomach .
When he had finished it to the last sweet , juicy kernel , he ambled sleepily up the Lone Little Path to the big hollow chestnut tree where he lives , and in its great hollow in a soft bed of leaves Bobby Coon curled himself up in a tight little ball to sleep the long , bright day away .
One of the Merry Little Breezes softly followed him .
When he had crawled into the hollow chestnut and only his funny , ringed tail hung out , the Merry Little Breezes tweaked it sharply just for fun , and then danced away down the Lone Little Path to join the other Merry Little Breezes around the Smiling Pool .
`` Oh !
Grandfather Frog , '' cried a Merry Little Breeze , `` tell us why it is that Bobby Coon always washes his food .
He never eats it where he gets it or takes it home to his hollow in the big chestnut , but always comes to the Laughing Brook to wash it .
None of the other meadow people do that . ''
Now Great-Grandfather Frog is counted very wise .
He is very , very old and he knows the history of all the tribes of little meadow people way back to the time when the frogs ruled the world .
When the Merry Little Breeze asked him why Bobby Coon always washes his food , Grandfather Frog stopped to snap up a particularly fat , foolish , green fly that came his way .
Then , while all the Merry Little Breezes gathered around him , he settled himself on his big green lily pad and began : `` Once upon a time , when the world was young , old King Bear ruled in the Green Forest .
Of course old Mother Nature , who was even more beautiful then than she is now , was the real ruler , but she let old King Bear think he ruled so long as he ruled wisely .
`` All the little Green Forest folk and all the little people of the Green Meadows used to take presents of food to old King Bear , so that he never had to hunt for things to eat .
He grew fatter and fatter and fatter until it seemed as if his skin must burst .
And the fatter he grew the lazier he grew . ''
Grandfather Frog paused with an expectant far-away look in his great bulging eyes .
Then he leaped into the air so far that when he came down it was with a great splash in the Smiling Pool .
But as he swam back to his big lily pad the leg of a foolish green fly could be seen sticking out of one corner of his big mouth , and he settled himself with a sigh of great contentment .
`` Old King Bear , '' continued Grandfather Frog , just as if there had been no interruption , `` grew fatter and lazier every day , and like a great many other fat and lazy people who have nothing to do for themselves but are always waited on by others , he grew shorter and shorter in temper and harder and harder to please .
`` Now perhaps you do n't know it , but the Bear family and the Coon family are very closely related .
In fact , they are second cousins .
Old Mr. Coon , Bobby Coon 's father with a thousand greats tacked on before , was young then , and he was very , very proud of being related to old King Bear .
He began to pass some of his old playfellows on the Green Meadows without seeing them .
He spent a great deal of time brushing his coat and combing his whiskers and caring for his big ringed tail .
He held his head very high and he put on such airs that pretty soon he could see no one at all but members of his own family and of the royal family of Bear .
`` Now as old King Bear grew fat and lazy he grew fussy , so that he was no longer content to take everything brought him , but picked out the choicest portions for himself and left the rest .
Mr. Coon took charge of all the things brought as tribute to old King Bear and of course where there were so many goodies left he got all he wanted without working .
`` So just as old King Bear had grown fat and lazy and selfish , Mr. Coon grew fat and lazy and selfish .
Pretty soon he began to pick out the best things for himself and hide them before old King Bear saw them .
When old King Bear was asleep he would go get them and stuff himself like a greedy pig .
And because he was stealing and wanted no one to see him he always ate his stolen feasts at night .
`` Now old Mother Nature is , as you all know , very , very wise , oh very wise indeed .
One of the first laws she made when the world was young is that every living thing shall work for what it has , and the harder it works the stronger it shall grow .
So when Old Mother Nature saw how fat and lazy and selfish old King Bear was getting and how fat and lazy and dishonest his cousin , Mr. Coon , was becoming , she determined that they should be taught a lesson which they would remember for ever and ever and ever .
`` First she proclaimed that old King Bear should be king no longer , and no more need the little folks of the Green Forest and the little people of the Green Meadows bring him tribute .
`` Now when old Mother Nature made this proclamation old King Bear was fast asleep .
It was just on the edge of winter and he had picked out a nice warm cave with a great pile of leaves for a bed .
Old Mother Nature peeped in at him .
He was snoring and probably dreaming of more good things to eat .
` If he is to be king no longer , there is no use in waking him now , ' said old Mother Nature to herself , ` he is so fat and so stupid .
He shall sleep until gentle Sister South Wind comes in the spring to kiss away the snow and ice .
Then he shall waken with a lean stomach and a great appetite and there shall be none to feed him . '
`` Now old Mother Nature always has a warm heart and she was very fond of Bobby Coon 's grandfather a thousand times removed .
So when she saw what a selfish glutton and thief he had become she decided to put him to sleep just as she had old King Bear .
But first she would teach Mr. Coon that stolen food is not the sweetest .
`` So old Mother Nature found some tender , juicy corn just in the milk which Mr. Coon had stolen from old King Bear .
Then she went down on the Green Meadows where the wild mustard grows and gathering a lot of this she rubbed the juice into the corn and then put it back where Mr. Coon had left it .
`` Now I have told you that it was night when Mr. Coon had his stolen feasts , for he wanted no one to see him .
So no one was there when he took a great bite of the tender , juicy corn old Mother Nature had put back for him .
Being greedy and a glutton , he swallowed the first mouthful before he had fairly tasted it , and took a second , and then such a time as there was on the edge of the Green Forest !
Mr. Coon rolled over and over with both of his forepaws clasped over his stomach and groaned and groaned and groaned .
He had rubbed his eyes and of course had got mustard into them and could not see .
He waked up all the little Green Forest folk who sleep through the night , as good people should , and they all gathered around to see what was the matter with Mr. Coon .
`` Finally old Mother Nature came to his relief and brought him some water .
Then she led him to his home in the great hollow in the big chestnut tree , and when she had seen him curled up in a tight little ball among the dried leaves she put him into the long sleep as she had old King Bear .
`` In the spring , when gentle Sister South Wind kissed away all the snow and ice , old King Bear , who was king no longer , and Mr. Coon awoke and both were very thin , and both were very hungry , oh very , very hungry indeed .
Old King Bear , who was king no longer , was n't the least mite fussy about what he had to eat , but ate gladly any food he could find .
`` But Mr. Coon remembered the burning of his stomach and mouth and could not forget it .
So whenever he found anything to eat he first took it to the Laughing Brook or the Smiling Pool and washed it very carefully , lest there be some mustard on it .
`` And ever since that long ago time , when the world was young , the Coon family has remembered that experience of Mr. Coon , who was second cousin to old King Bear , and that is why Bobby Coon washes his food , travels about at night , and sleeps all winter , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , fixing his great goggle eyes on a foolish green fly headed his way .
`` Oh thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes as they danced away over the Green Meadows .
But one of them slipped back long enough to get behind the foolish green fly and blow him right up to Grandfather Frog 's big lily pad .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog , smacking his lips .
XIII THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES HAVE A BUSY DAY Old Mother West Wind came down from the Purple Hills in the shadowy coolness of the early morning , before even jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had thrown off his rosy coverlids for his daily climb up through the blue sky .
The last little star was blinking sleepily as Old Mother West Wind turned her big bag upside down on the Green Meadows and all her children , the Merry Little Breezes , tumbled out on the soft green grass .
Then Old Mother West Wind kissed them all around and hurried away to hunt for a rain cloud which had gone astray .
The Merry Little Breezes watched her go .
Then they played hide and seek until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had climbed out of bed and was smiling down on the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon along came Peter Rabbit , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Come play with us ! ''
`` Ca n't , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I have to go find some tender young carrots for my breakfast , '' and away be hurried , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
In a few minutes Jimmy Skunk came in sight and he seemed to be almost hurrying along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
The Merry Little Breezes danced over to meet him .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
they cried .
`` Come play with us ! ''
Jimmy Skunk shook his head .
`` Ca n't , '' said he .
`` I have to go look for some beetles for my breakfast , '' and off he went looking under every old stick and pulling over every stone not too big for his strength .
The Merry Little Breezes watched him for a few minutes and then raced over to the Laughing Brook .
There they found Billy Mink stealing softly down towards the Smiling Pool .
`` Oh , Billy Mink , come play with us , '' begged the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Ca n't , '' said Billy Mink .
`` I have to catch a trout for Grandfather Mink 's breakfast , '' and he crept on towards the Smiling Pool .
Just then along came Bumble the Bee .
Now Bumble the Bee is a lazy fellow who always makes a great fuss , as if he was the busiest and most important fellow in the world .
`` Good morning , Bumble , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Come play with us ! ''
`` Buzz , buzz , buzz , '' grumbled Bumble the Bee .
`` Ca n't , for I have to get a sack of honey , '' and off he hurried to the nearest dandelion .
Then the Merry Little Breezes hunted up Johnny Chuck .
But Johnny Chuck was busy , too busy to play .
Bobby Coon was asleep , for he had been out all night .
Reddy Fox also was asleep .
Striped Chipmunk was in such a hurry to fill the pockets in his cheeks that he could hardly stop to say good morning .
Happy Jack Squirrel just flirted his big tail and rushed away as if he had many important things to attend to .
Finally the Merry Little Breezes gave it up and sat down among the buttercups and daisies to talk it over .
Every one seemed to have something to do , every one but themselves .
It was such a busy world that sunshiny morning !
Pretty soon one of the Merry Little Breezes hopped up very suddenly and began the maddest little dance among the buttercups .
`` As we have n't anything to do for ourselves let 's do something for somebody else ! ''
he shouted .
Up jumped all the Little Breezes , clapping their hands .
`` Oh let 's ! ''
they shouted .
Way over across the Green Meadows they could see two long ears above the nodding daisies .
`` There 's Peter Rabbit , '' cried one .
`` Let 's help him find those tender young carrots ! ''
No sooner proposed than off they all raced to see who could reach Peter first .
Peter was sitting up very straight , looking this way and looking that way for some tender young carrots , but not one had he found , and his stomach was empty .
The Merry Little Breezes stopped just long enough to tickle his long ears and pull his whiskers , then away they raced , scattering in all directions , to see who could first find a tender young carrot for Peter Rabbit .
By and by when one of them did find a field of tender young carrots he rushed off , taking the smell of them with him to tickle the nose of Peter Rabbit .
Peter wriggled his nose , his funny little nose , very fast when it was tickled with the smell of tender young carrots , and the Merry Little Breeze laughed to see him .
`` Come on , Peter Rabbit , for this is my busy day ! ''
he cried .
Peter Rabbit did n't have to be invited twice .
Away he went , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as his long legs could take him after the Merry Little Breeze .
And presently they came to the field of tender young carrots .
`` Oh thank you , Merry Little Breeze ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit , and straightway began to eat his breakfast .
Another Merry Little Breeze , slipping up the Crooked Little Path on the hill , spied the hind legs of a fat beetle sticking out from under a flat stone .
At once the Little Breeze remembered Jimmy Skunk , who was hunting for beetles for his breakfast .
Off rushed the Little Breeze in merry whirls that made the grasses sway and bend and the daisies nod .
When after a long , long hunt he found Jimmy Skunk , Jimmy was very much out of sorts .
In fact Jimmy Skunk was positively cross .
You see , he had n't had any breakfast , for hunt as he would he could n't find a single beetle .
When the Merry Little Breeze danced up behind Jimmy Skunk and , just in fun , rumpled up his black and white coat , Jimmy quite lost his temper .
In fact he said some things not at all nice to the Merry Little Breeze .
But the Merry Little Breeze just laughed .
The more he laughed the crosser Jimmy Skunk grew , and the crosser Jimmy Skunk grew the more the Merry Little Breeze laughed .
It was such a jolly laugh that pretty soon Jimmy Skunk began to grin a little sheepishly , then to really smile and finally to laugh outright in spite of his empty stomach .
You see it is very hard , very hard indeed and very foolish , to remain cross when someone else is perfectly good natured .
Suddenly the Merry Little Breeze danced up to Jimmy Skunk and whispered in his right ear .
Then he danced around and whispered in his left ear .
Jimmy Skunk 's eyes snapped and his mouth began to water .
`` Where , Little Breeze , where ? ''
he begged .
`` Follow me , '' cried the Merry Little Breeze , racing off up the Crooked Little Path so fast that Jimmy Skunk lost his breath trying to keep up , for you know Jimmy Skunk seldom hurries .
When they came to the big flat stone Jimmy Skunk grasped it with both hands and pulled and pulled .
Up came the stone so suddenly that Jimmy Skunk fell over flat on his back .
When he had scrambled to his feet there were beetles and beetles , running in every direction to find a place to hide .
`` Thank you , thank you , Little Breeze , '' shouted Jimmy Skunk as he started to catch beetles for his breakfast .
And the Little Breeze laughed happily as he danced away to join the other Merry Little Breezes on the Green Meadows .
There he found them very , very busy , very busy indeed , so busy that they could hardly find time to nod to him .
What do you think they were doing ?
They were toting gold !
Yes , Sir , toting gold !
And this is how it happened : While the first Little Breeze was showing Peter Rabbit the field of tender young carrots , and while the second Little Breeze was leading Jimmy Skunk to the flat stone and the beetles , the other Merry Little Breezes had found Bumble the Bee .
Now Bumble the Bee is a lazy fellow , though he pretends to be the busiest fellow in the world , and they found him grumbling as he buzzed with a great deal of fuss from one flower to another .
`` What 's the matter , Bumble ? ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Matter enough , '' grumbled Bumble the Bee .
`` I 've got to make a sack of honey , and as if that is n't enough , old Mother Nature has ordered me to carry a sack of gold from each flower I visit to the next flower I visit .
If I do n't I can get no honey .
Buzz-buzz-buzz , '' grumbled Bumble the Bee .
The Merry Little Breezes looked at the million little flowers on the Green Meadows , each waiting a sack of gold to give and a sack of gold to receive .
Then they looked at each other and shouted happily , for they too would now be able to cry `` busy , busy , busy . ''
From flower to flower they hurried , each with a bag of gold over his shoulder .
Wherever they left a bag they took a bag , and all the little flowers nodded happily to see the Merry Little Breezes at work .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climbed higher and higher and higher in the blue sky , where he can look down and see all things , great and small .
His smile was broader than ever as he watched the hurrying , scurrying Little Breezes working instead of playing .
Yet after all it was a kind of play , for they danced from flower to flower and ran races across bare places where no flowers grew .
By and by the Merry Little Breezes met Peter Rabbit .
Now Peter Rabbit had made a good breakfast of tender young carrots , so he felt very good , very good indeed .
`` Hi ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit , `` come play with me . ''
`` Ca n't , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes all together , `` we have work to do ! ''
Off they hurried , while Peter Rabbit stretched himself out full length in a sunny spot , for Peter Rabbit also is a lazy fellow .
Down the Crooked Little Path onto the Green Meadows came Jimmy Skunk .
`` Ho ! ''
shouted Jimmy Skunk as soon as he saw the Little Breezes , `` come play with me . ''
`` Ca n't , '' cried the Little Breezes , `` for we are busy , busy , busy , '' and they laughed happily .
When they reached the Laughing Brook they found Billy Mink curled up in a round ball , fast asleep .
It is n't often that Billy Mink is caught napping , but he had had a good breakfast of trout , he had found no one to play with and , as he never works and the day was so bright and warm , he had first looked for a place where he thought no one would find him and had then curled himself up to sleep , One of the Little Breezes laid down the bag of gold he was carrying and creeping ever so softly over to Billy Mink began to tickle one of Billy 's ears with a straw .
At first Billy Mink did n't open his eyes , but rubbed his ear with a little black hand .
Finally he jumped to his feet wide awake and ready to fight whoever was bothering him .
But all he saw was a laughing Little Breeze running away with a bag of gold on his back .
So all day long , till Old Mother West Wind came with her big bag to carry them to their home behind the Purple Hills , the Merry Little Breezes hurried this way and that way over the Green Meadows .
No wee flower was too tiny to give and receive its share of gold , and not one was overlooked by the Merry Little Breezes .
Old Mother Nature , who knows everything , heard of the busy day of the Merry Little Breezes .
Nobody knows how she heard of it .
Perhaps jolly , round , red Mr. Sun told her .
Perhaps -- but never mind .
You ca n't fool old Mother Nature anyway and it 's of no use to try .
So old Mother Nature visited the Green Meadows to see for herself , and when she found how the Merry Little Breezes had distributed the gold she was so pleased that straightway she announced to all the world that thenceforth and for all time the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind should have charge of the distribution of the gold of the flowers on the Green Meadows , which they have to this day .
And since that day the Merry Little Breezes have been merrier than ever , for they have found that it is not nearly so much fun to play all the time , but that to work for some good in the world is the greatest fun of all .
So every year when the gold of the flowers , which some people do not know is gold at all but call pollen , is ready you will find the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind very , very busy among the flowers on the Green Meadows .
And this is the happiest time of all .
XIV WHY HOOTY THE OWL DOES NOT PLAY ON THE GREEN MEADOWS The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were having a good-night game of tag down on the Green Meadows .
They were having such a jolly time while they waited for Old Mother West Wind and her big bag to take them to their home behind the Purple Hills .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had already put his nightcap on .
Black shadows crept softly out from the Purple Hills onto the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes grew sleepy , almost too sleepy to play , for Old Mother West Wind was very , very late .
Farther and farther and farther out onto the Green Meadows crept the black shadows .
Suddenly one seemed to separate from the others .
Softly , oh so softly , yet swiftly , it floated over towards the Merry Little Breezes .
One of them happened to look up and saw it coming .
It was the same Little Breeze who one time stayed out all night .
When he looked up and saw this seeming shadow moving so swiftly he knew that it was no shadow at all .
`` Here comes Hooty the Owl , '' cried the Little Breeze .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes stopped their game of tag to look at Hooty the Owl .
It is seldom they have a chance to see him , for usually Hooty the Owl does not come out on the Green Meadows until after the Merry Little Breezes are snugly tucked in bed behind the Purple Hills .
`` Perhaps Hooty the Owl will tell us why it is that he never comes out to play with us , '' said one of the Little Breezes .
But just as Hooty the Owl floated over to them up came Old Mother West Wind , and she was in a great hurry , for she was late , and she was tired .
She had had a busy day , a very busy day indeed , hunting for a rain cloud which had gone astray .
So now she just opened her big bag and tumbled all the Merry Little Breezes into it as fast as she could without giving them so much as a chance to say `` Good evening '' to Hooty the Owl .
Then she took them off home behind the Purple Hills .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes were disappointed , very much disappointed .
But they were also very sleepy , for they had played hard all day .
`` Never mind , '' said one of them , drowsily , `` to-morrow we 'll ask Great-Grandfather Frog why it is that Hooty the Owl never comes out to play with us on the Green Meadows .
He 'll know . ''
The next morning Old Mother West Wind was late in coming down from the Purple Hills .
When she finally did turn the Merry Little Breezes out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was already quite high in the blue sky .
The Merry Little Breezes waited just long enough to say `` Good-by '' to Old Mother West Wind , and then started a mad race to see who could reach the Smiling Pool first .
There they found Great-Grandfather Frog sitting on his big green lily pad as usual .
He was very contented with the world , was Grandfather Frog , for fat green flies had been more foolish than usual that morning and already he had all that he could safely tuck inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Will you tell us why it is that Hooty the Owl never comes out to play with us on the Green Meadows ? ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Great-Grandfather Frog , gruffly , `` how should I know ? ''
You see , Grandfather Frog likes to be teased a little .
`` Oh , but you do know , for you are so old and so very wise , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes all together .
Grandfather Frog smiled , for he likes to be thought very wise , and also he was feeling very good , very good indeed that morning .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` If you 'll sit perfectly still I 'll tell you what I know about Hooty the Owl .
But remember , you must sit perfectly still , per-fect-ly still . ''
The Merry Little Breezes sighed , for it is the hardest thing in the world for them to keep perfectly still unless they are asleep .
But they promised that they would , and when they had settled down , each one in the heart of a great white water lily , Grandfather Frog began : `` Once upon a time , when the world was young , Hooty the Owl 's grandfather a thousand times removed used to fly about in daylight with the other birds .
He was very big and very strong and very fierce , was Mr. Owl .
He had great big claws and a hooked bill , just as Hooty the Owl has now , and he was afraid of nothing and nobody .
`` Now when people are very big and very strong and afraid of nothing and nobody they are very apt to care for nothing and nobody but themselves .
So it was with Mr. Owl .
Whatever he saw that he wanted he took , no matter to whom it belonged , for there was no one to stop him .
`` As I have already told you , Mr. Owl was very big and very strong and very fierce and he was a very great glutton .
It took a great many little birds and little animals to satisfy his appetite .
But he did n't stop there !
No , Sir , he did n't stop there !
He used to kill harmless little meadow people just for the fun of killing , and because he could .
Every day he grew more savage .
Finally no one smaller than himself dared stir on the Green Meadows when he was around .
The little birds no longer sang .
The Fieldmice children no longer played among the meadow grasses .
Those were sad days , very sad days indeed on the Green Meadows , '' said Grandfather Frog , with a sigh .
`` At last old Mother Nature came to visit the Green Meadows and she soon saw what a terrible state things were in .
No one came to meet her , for you see no one dared to show himself for fear of fierce old Mr. Owl .
`` Now I have told you that Mr. Owl was afraid of nothing and nobody , but this is not quite true , for he was afraid , very much afraid of old Mother Nature .
When he saw her coming he was sitting on top of a tall dead stump and he at once tried to look very meek and very innocent .
`` Old Mother Nature wasted no time .
` Where are all my little meadow people and why do they not come to give me greeting ? '
demanded old Mother Nature of Mr. Owl .
`` Mr. Owl bowed very low .
` I 'm sure I do n't know .
I think they must all be taking a nap , ' said he .
`` Now you ca n't fool old Mother Nature and it 's of no use to try .
No , Sir , you ca n't fool old Mother Nature .
She just looked at Mr. Owl and she looked at the feathers and fur scattered about the foot of the dead stump .
Mr. Owl stood first on one foot and then on the other .
He tried to look old Mother Nature in the face , but he could n't .
You see , Mr. Owl had a guilty conscience and a guilty conscience never looks anyone straight in the face .
He did wish that Mother Nature would say something , did Mr. Owl .
But she did n't .
She just looked and looked and looked and looked straight at Mr. Owl .
The longer she looked the uneasier he got and the faster he shifted from one foot to the other .
Finally he shifted so fast that he seemed to be dancing on top of the old stump .
`` Gradually , a few at a time , the little meadow people crept out from their hiding places and formed a great circle around the old dead stump .
With old Mother Nature there they felt sure that no harm could come to them .
Then they began to laugh at the funny sight of fierce old Mr. Owl hopping from one foot to the other on top of the old dead stump .
It was the first laugh on the Green Meadows for a long , long , long time .
`` Of course Mr. Owl saw them laughing at him , but he could think of nothing but the sharp eyes of old Mother Nature boring straight through him , and he danced faster than ever .
The faster he danced the funnier he looked , and the funnier he looked the harder the little meadow people laughed .
`` Finally old Mother Nature slowly raised a hand and pointed a long forefinger at Mr. Owl .
All the little meadow people stopped laughing to hear what she would say . ''
` Mr. Owl , ' she began , ' I know and you know why none of my little meadow people were here to give me greeting .
And this shall be your punishment : From now on your eyes shall become so tender that they can not stand the light of day , so that hereafter you shall fly about only after round , red Mr. Sun has gone to bed behind the Purple Hills .
No more shall my little people who play on the Green Meadows all the day long have cause to fear you , for no more shall you see to do them harm . '
`` When she ceased speaking all the little meadow people gave a great shout , for they knew that it would be even as Mother Nature had said .
Then began such a frolic as the Green Meadows had not known for many a long day .
`` But Mr. Owl flew slowly and with difficulty over to the darkest part of the deep wood , for the light hurt his eyes dreadfully and he could hardly see .
And as he flew the little birds flew around him in a great cloud and plucked out his feathers and tormented him for he could not see to harm them . ''
Grandfather Frog paused and looked dreamily across the Smiling Pool .
Suddenly he opened his big mouth and then closed it with a snap .
One more foolish green fly had disappeared inside the white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog , `` those were sad days , sad days indeed for Mr. Owl .
He could n't hunt for his meals by day , for the light blinded him .
At night he could see but little in the darkness .
So he got little to eat and he grew thinner and thinner and thinner until he was but a shadow of his former self .
He was always hungry , was Mr. Owl , always hungry .
No one was afraid of him now , for it was the easiest thing in the world to keep out of his way .
`` At last old Mother Nature came again to visit the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Far , far in the darkest part of the deep wood she found Mr. Owl .
When she saw how very thin and how very , very miserable he was her heart was moved to pity , for old Mother Nature loves all her subjects , even the worst of them .
All the fierceness was gone from Mr. Owl .
He was so weak that he just sat huddled in the thickest part of the great pine .
You see he had been able to catch very little to eat . ''
` Mr. Owl , ' said old Mother Nature gently , ` you now know something of the misery and the suffering which you have caused others , and I think you have been punished enough .
No more may you fly abroad over the Green Meadows while the day is bright , for still is the fear of you in the hearts of all my little meadow people , but hereafter you shall not find it so difficult to get enough to eat .
Your eyes shall grow big , bigger than the eyes of any other bird , so that you shall be able to see in the dusk and even in the dark .
Your ears shall grow large , larger than the ears of any of the little forest or meadow people , so that you can hear the very least sound .
Your feathers shall become as soft as down , so that when you fly none shall hear you . '
`` And from that day it was even so .
Mr. Owl 's eyes grew big and bigger until he could see as well in the dusk as he used to see in the full light of day .
His ears grew large and larger until his hearing became so keen that he could hear the least rustle , even at a long distance .
And when he flew he made no sound , but floated like a great shadow .
`` The little meadow people no longer feared him by day , but when the shadows began to creep out from the Purple Hills each night and they heard his voice ` Whoo-too-whoo-hoo-hoo ' they felt all the old fear of him .
If they were wise they did not stir , but if they were foolish and so much as shivered Mr. Owl was sure to hear them and silently pounce upon them .
`` So once more Mr. Owl grew strong and fierce .
But only at night had anyone cause to fear him , and then only the foolish and timid .
`` And now you know , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , `` why it is that Hooty the Owl never comes out to play with you on the Green Meadows , and why his eyes are so big and his ears so large . ''
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes , springing up from the white water lilies and stretching themselves .
`` We 'll bring you the first foolish green fly we can find . ''
Then away they rushed to hunt for it .
XV DANNY MEADOW MOUSE LEARNS TO LAUGH Danny Meadow Mouse sat on his doorstep and sulked .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind ran past , one after another , and pointing their fingers at him cried : `` Fie , Danny Meadow Mouse !
Better go inside the house !
Babies cry -- oh my !
oh my !
You 're a baby -- go and cry ! ''
Pretty soon along the Lone Little Path came Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit looked at Danny Meadow Mouse .
Then he pointed a finger at him and said : `` Cry , Danny , cry !
Mammy 'll whip you by and by !
Then we 'll all come ` round to see How big a baby you can be .
Cry , Danny , cry ! ''
Danny Meadow Mouse began to snivel .
He cried softly to himself as Peter Rabbit hopped off down the Lone Little Path .
Soon along came Reddy Fox .
He saw Danny Meadow Mouse sitting on his doorstep crying all by himself .
Reddy Fox crept up behind a tall bunch of grass .
Then suddenly he jumped out right in front of Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Boo ! ''
cried Reddy Fox .
It frightened Danny Meadow Mouse .
He jumped almost out of his skin , and ran into the house crying at the top of his voice .
`` Ha , ha , ha , '' laughed Reddy Fox `` Danny , Danny , crying Dan Boo-hoo-hooed and off he ran ! ''
Then Reddy Fox chased his tail all the way down the Lone Little Path onto the Green Meadows .
By and by Danny Meadow Mouse came out again and sat on his doorstep .
He had stopped crying , but he looked very unhappy and cross and sulky .
Hopping and skipping down the Lone Little Path came Striped Chipmunk .
`` Come play with me , '' called Danny Meadow Mouse .
Striped Chipmunk kept right on hopping and skipping down the Lone Little Path .
`` Do n't want to , '' said Striped Chipmunk , sticking his tongue in his cheek .
`` Cry-baby Danny Never 'll be a manny !
Run to mamma , Danny , dear , And she will wipe away your tear ! ''
Striped Chipmunk hopped and skipped out of sight , and Danny Meadow Mouse began to cry again because Striped Chipmunk would not play with him .
It was true , dreadfully true !
Danny Meadow Mouse was a cry-baby and no one wanted to play with him .
If he stubbed his toe he cried .
If Striped Chipmunk beat him in a race he cried .
If the Merry Little Breezes pulled his whiskers just in fun he cried .
It had come to such a pass that all the little meadow people delighted to tease him just to make him cry .
Nowhere on all the Green Meadows was there such a cry-baby as Danny Meadow Mouse .
So Danny sat on his doorstep and cried because no one would play with him and he was lonely .
The more he thought how lonely he was , the more he cried .
Presently along came old Mr. Toad .
Now Mr. Toad looks very grumpy and out of sorts , but that is because you do not know old Mr. Toad .
When he reached the house of Danny Meadow Mouse he stopped right in front of Danny .
He put his right hand behind his right ear and listened .
Then he put his left hand behind his left ear and listened some more .
Finally he put both hands on his hips and began to laugh .
Now Mr. Toad 's mouth is very big indeed , and when he opens it to laugh he opens it very wide indeed .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laughed Mr. Toad .
Danny Meadow Mouse cried harder than ever , and the harder he cried the harder old Mr. Toad laughed .
By and by Danny Meadow Mouse stopped crying long enough to say to Mr. Toad : `` What are you laughing for , Mr. Toad ? ''
Mr. Toad stopped laughing long enough to reply : `` I 'm laughing , Danny Meadow Mouse , because you are crying at me .
What are you crying for ? ''
`` I 'm crying , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse , `` because you are laughing at me . ''
Then Danny began to cry again , and Mr. Toad began to laugh again .
`` What 's all this about ? ''
demanded some one right behind them .
It was Jimmy Skunk .
`` It 's a new kind of game , '' said old Mr. Toad .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse is trying to see if he can cry longer than I can laugh . ''
Then old Mr. Toad once more opened his big mouth and began to laugh harder than ever .
Jimmy Skunk looked at him for just a minute and he looked so funny that Jimmy Skunk began to laugh too .
Now a good honest laugh is like whooping cough -- it is catching .
The first thing Danny Meadow Mouse knew his tears would not come .
It 's a fact , Danny Meadow Mouse had run short of tears .
The next thing he knew he was n't crying at all -- he was laughing .
Yes , Sir , he actually was laughing .
He tried to cry , but it was of no use at all ; he just had to laugh .
The more he laughed the harder old Mr. Toad laughed .
And the harder Mr. Toad laughed the funnier he looked .
Pretty soon all three of them , Danny Meadow Mouse , old Mr. Toad and Jimmy Skunk , were holding their sides and rolling over and over in the grass , they were laughing so hard .
By and by Mr. Toad stopped laughing .
`` Dear me , dear me , this will never do ! ''
said Mr. Toad .
`` I must get busy in my garden .
`` The little slugs , they creep and crawl And eat and eat from spring to fall They never stop to laugh nor cry , And really could n't if they 'd try .
So if you 'll excuse me I 'll hurry along to get them out of my garden . ''
Mr. Toad started down the Lone Little Path .
After a few hops he paused and turned around .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse , '' said old Mr. Toad , `` an honest laugh is like sunshine ; it brightens the whole world .
Do n't forget it . ''
Jimmy Skunk remembered that he had started out to find some beetles , so still chuckling he started for the Crooked Little Path up the hill .
Danny Meadow Mouse , once more alone , sat down on his doorstep .
His sides were sore , he had laughed so hard , and somehow the whole world had changed .
The grass seemed greener than he had ever seen it before .
The sunshine was brighter and the songs of the birds were sweeter .
Altogether it was a very nice world , a very nice world indeed to live in .
Somehow he felt as if he never wanted to cry again .
Pretty soon along came the Merry Little Breezes again , chasing butterflies .
When they saw Danny Meadow Mouse sitting on his doorstep they pointed their fingers at him , just as before , and shouted : `` Fie , Danny Meadow Mouse !
Better go inside the house !
Babies cry -- oh my !
oh my !
You 're a baby -- go and cry ! ''
For just a little minute Danny Meadow Mouse wanted to cry .
Then he remembered old Mr. Toad and instead began to laugh .
The Merry Little Breezes did n't know just what to make of it .
They stopped chasing butterflies and crowded around Danny Meadow Mouse .
They began to tease him .
They pulled his whiskers and rumpled his hair .
The more they teased the more Danny Meadow Mouse laughed .
When they found that Danny Meadow Mouse really was n't going to cry , they stopped teasing and invited him to come play with them in the long meadow grass .
Such a good frolic as they did have !
When it was over Danny Meadow Mouse once more sat down on his doorstep to rest .
Hopping and skipping back up the Lone Little Path came Striped Chipmunk .
When he saw Danny Meadow Mouse he stuck his tongue in his cheek and cried : `` Cry-baby Danny Never 'll be a manny !
Run to mamma , Danny dear , And she will wipe away your tear ! ''
Instead of crying Danny Meadow Mouse began to laugh .
Striped Chipmunk stopped and took his tongue out of his cheek .
Then he began to laugh too .
`` Do you want me to play with you ? ''
asked Striped Chipmunk , suddenly .
Of course Danny did , and soon they were having the merriest kind of a game of hide and seek .
Right in the midst of it Danny Meadow Mouse caught his left foot in a root and twisted his ankle .
My , how it did hurt !
In spite of himself tears did come into his eyes .
But he winked them back and bravely began to laugh .
Striped Chipmunk helped him back to his doorstep and cut funny capers while Mother Meadow Mouse bound up the hurt foot , and all the time Danny Meadow Mouse laughed until pretty soon he forgot that his foot ached at all .
When Peter Rabbit came jumping along up the Lone Little Path he began to shout as soon as he saw Danny Meadow Mouse : `` Cry , Danny , cry !
Mammy 'll whip you by and by !
Then we 'll all come ` round to see How big a baby you can be .
Cry , Danny , cry ! ''
But Danny did n't cry .
My , no !
He laughed instead .
Peter Rabbit was so surprised that he stopped to see what had come over Danny Meadow Mouse .
When he saw the bandaged foot and heard how Danny had twisted his ankle Peter Rabbit sat right down on the doorstep beside Danny Meadow Mouse and told him how sorry he was , for happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit is very tender-hearted .
Then he told Danny all about the wonderful things he had seen in his travels , and of all the scrapes he had gotten into .
When Peter Rabbit finally started off home Danny Meadow Mouse still sat on his doorstep .
But no longer was he lonely .
He watched Old Mother West Wind trying to gather her Merry Little Breezes into her big bag to take to their home behind the Purple Hills , and he laughed right out when he saw her catch the last mischievous Little Breeze and tumble him , heels over head , in with the others .
`` Old Mr. Toad was right , just exactly right , '' thought Danny Meadow Mouse , as he rocked to and fro on his doorstep .
`` It is much better , oh very much better , to laugh than to cry . ''
And since that day when Danny Meadow Mouse learned to laugh , no one has had a chance to point a finger at him and call him a cry-baby .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind_"How"_Stories.txt.out
I HOW OLD KING EAGLE WON HIS WHITE HEAD MOTHER WEST WIND `` HOW '' STORIES I HOW OLD KING EAGLE WON HIS WHITE HEAD Peter Rabbit sat on the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , staring up into the sky with his head tipped back until it made his neck ache .
Way , way up in the sky was a black speck sailing across the snowy white face of a cloud .
It did n't seem possible that it could be alive way up there .
But it was .
Peter knew that it was , and he knew who it was .
It was King Eagle .
By and by it disappeared over towards the Great Mountain .
Peter rubbed the back of his neck , which ached because he had tipped his head back so long .
Then he gave a little sigh .
`` I wonder what it seems like to be able to fly like that , '' said he out loud , a way he sometimes has .
`` Are you envious ? ''
asked a voice so close to him that Peter jumped .
There was Sammy Jay sitting in a little tree just over his head .
`` No ! ''
snapped Peter , for it made him a wee bit cross to be so startled .
`` No , I 'm not envious , Sammy Jay .
I 'm not envious of any bird .
The ground is good enough for me .
I was just wondering , that 's all . ''
`` Have you ever seen King Eagle close to ? ''
asked Sammy .
`` Once , '' replied Peter .
`` Once he came down to the Green Meadows and sat in that lone tree over there , and I was squatting in a bunch of grass quite near and could see him very plainly .
He is big and fierce-looking , but he looks his name , every inch a king .
I 've wondered a good many times since how it happens that he has a white head . ''
`` Because , '' replied Sammy , `` he is just what he looks to be , -- king of the birds , -- and that white head is the sign of his royalty given his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather by Old Mother Nature , way back in the beginning of things . ''
Peter 's eyes sparkled .
`` Tell me about it , Sammy , '' he begged .
`` Tell me about it , and I wo n't quarrel with you any more . ''
`` All right , Peter .
I 'll tell you the story , because it will do you good to hear it .
I supposed everybody knew it .
All birds do .
That is why we all look up to King Eagle , '' replied Sammy .
`` Way back in the beginning of things , old King Bear ruled in the Green Forest , as you know .
That is , he ruled the animals and all the little people who lived on the ground , but he did n't rule the birds .
You see the birds were not willing to be ruled over by an animal .
They wanted one of their own kind .
So they refused to have old King Bear as their king and went to Old Mother Nature to ask her to appoint a king of the air .
Now Mr. Eagle was one of the biggest and strongest and most respected of all the birds of the air .
There were some , like Mr. Goose and Mr. Swan , who were bigger , but they spent most of their time on the water or the earth , and they had no great claws or hooked beak to command respect as did Mr. Eagle .
So Old Mother Nature made Mr. Eagle king of the air , and as was quite right and proper , all the birds hastened to pay him homage .
`` So King Eagle ruled the air and none dared to cross him or to disobey him .
Unlike old King Bear , he accepted no tribute from his subjects but hunted for himself , and instead of growing fat and lazy , as did old King Bear , he grew stronger of wing and feared no one and nothing .
Now this was in the days when the world was young , and Old Mother Nature was very busy trying to make the world a good place to live in , so she had very little time to look after the birds and the animals .
Thus she left matters very much to King Eagle and old King Bear .
They settled all the quarrels between their subjects , and for a while everything went smoothly .
`` King Eagle made his home on the cliff of a mountain , so that he could look down on all below and see what was going on .
Every day he went down to the Green Forest and sat on the tallest tree while he listened to the complaints of the other birds and settled their disputes , and none questioned his decisions .
Now after a while , this little part of the earth where the animals and the birds first lived became overcrowded .
It became harder and harder to get enough to eat .
Quarrels became more frequent , until King Eagle had little time for anything but straightening out these troubles and trying to keep peace .
`` Old Mother Nature had been away a long time trying to make other parts of the world fit to live in .
No one knew when she was coming back or just where she was .
King Eagle , sitting on the edge of the cliff on the mountain , thought it all over .
Old Mother Nature ought to know how things were .
He would send a messenger to try to find her .
So the next day he called all the birds together and asked who would go out into the unknown Great World to look for Old Mother Nature and take a message to her .
`` No one offered .
This one had a family to look after .
That one was not feeling well .
Another had a pain in his wings .
One and all they had an excuse until Hummer , the tiniest of all the birds , was reached .
He darted into the air before King Eagle .
` I 'll go , ' said he .
`` All the others laughed .
The very idea of such a tiny fellow going out to dare the dangers of the unknown Great World seemed to them so absurd that they just had to laugh .
But King Eagle did n't laugh .
He thanked Hummer and told him that his heart was as big as his body was small , but that he would not send him out into the Great World , for he would go himself .
He had been but trying out his subjects , and he had found but one who was worthy , and that one was the smallest of them all .
Then King Eagle said things that made all the other birds hang their heads for shame and want to sneak out of sight .
`` After that , he told them that no king who was worthy to be king would ask his subjects to do what he would not do himself , and that where there was danger to be faced or something hard to do , it was the king 's place to do it , so he himself was going out into the unknown Great World to find Mother Nature and see what could be done to make things better and happier for them .
Then he spread his great wings and sailed away , every inch a king .
They watched him until he was a speck in the sky , and finally he disappeared altogether .
`` Day after day they watched for him to come back , but there was no sign of him ; they began to shake their heads and openly talk of choosing a new king .
Only little Mr. Hummer kept his faith and day after day flew away in the direction old King Eagle had gone , hoping to meet him coming back .
At last a day was set to choose a new king .
That morning , as soon as it was light enough to see , little Mr. Hummer darted away , and his heart was heavy .
He would take no part in choosing a new king .
He would go until he found King Eagle or until something happened to him .
Pretty soon he saw a speck way up against a cloud , a speck no bigger than himself .
It grew bigger and bigger , and at last he knew that it was King Eagle himself .
Little Mr. Hummer turned and flew as he never had flown before .
He wanted to get back before a new king was chosen , so that King Eagle might never know that his subjects had lost faith in him .
`` He was so out of breath when he reached the other birds that he could n't say a word for a few minutes .
Then he told them that King Eagle was coming .
The other birds had proved that they were not brave when they had refused to go out in search of Old Mother Nature , and now they proved it again .
Instead of waiting to give King Eagle a royal welcome , they hurried away , one after another .
They were afraid to meet him , because in their hearts they knew that they had done a cowardly thing in deciding to choose a new king .
So when King Eagle , weary and with torn wings and broken tail feathers , dropped down to the tall tree in the Green Forest , there was none to give him greeting save little Mr. Hummer .
`` King Eagle said nothing about the failure of the other birds to give him greeting but at once sent little Mr. Hummer around to tell all the others that far away he had found Old Mother Nature preparing a new land for them , and that when she gave the word , he would lead them to it .
Then King Eagle flew to his home on the cliff of the mountain , and not one word did he ever say of his terrible journey , of how he had gone hungry , had been beaten by storms , and had suffered from cold and weariness , yet never once had turned back .
`` But when Old Mother Nature came later and announced that the new land was ready for the birds , she first called them together and told them all that King Eagle had suffered , and how he had proved himself a royal king .
As a reward she promised that his family should be rulers over the birds forever , and as a sign that this should be so , she reached forth and touched his black head , and it became snowy white , and all the birds cried ` Long live the king ! '
`` Then Old Mother Nature turned to tiny Mr. Hummer and touched his throat , and behold a shining ruby was there , the reward of loyalty , faith , and bravery .
`` Then King Eagle mounted into the air and proudly led the way to the promised land .
And so the birds went forth and peopled the Great World , and King Eagle and his children and his children 's children have ruled the air ever since and have worn the snowy crown which King Eagle of long ago so bravely won . ''
II HOW OLD MR. MINK TAUGHT HIMSELF TO SWIM II HOW OLD MR. MINK TAUGHT HIMSELF TO SWIM Of all the little people who live in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or around the Smiling Pool , Billy Mink has the most accomplishments .
At least , it seems that way to his friends and neighbors .
He can run very swiftly ; he can climb very nimbly ; his eyes and his ears and his nose are all wonderfully keen , and -- he can swim like a fish .
Yes , Sir , Billy Mink is just as much at home in the water as out of it .
So , wherever he happens to be , in the Green Forest , out on the Green Meadows , along the Laughing Brook , or in the Smiling Pool , he feels perfectly at home and quite able to look out for himself .
Once Billy Mink had boasted that he could do anything that any one else who wore fur could do , but boasters almost always come to grief , and Grandfather Frog had brought Billy to grief that time .
He had invited every one to meet at the Smiling Pool and see Billy Mink do whatever any one else who wore fur could do , and then , when Billy had run and jumped and climbed and swum , Grandfather Frog had called Flitter the Bat .
There was some one wearing fur who could fly , and of course Billy Mink could n't do that .
It cured Billy of boasting , -- for a while , anyway .
Now Peter Rabbit , who can do little but run and jump , used sometimes to feel a wee bit of envy in his heart when he thought of all the things that Billy Mink could do and do well .
Somehow Peter could never make it seem quite right that one person should be able to do so many things when others could do only one or two things .
He said as much to Grandfather Frog one day , as they watched Billy Mink catch a fat trout .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog and looked sharply at Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum !
People never know what they can do till they try .
Once upon a time Billy Mink 's great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather could n't swim any more than you can , but he did n't waste any time foolishly wishing that he could . ''
`` What did he do ? ''
asked Peter eagerly .
`` Learned how , '' replied Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Made it his business to learn how .
Then he taught his children , and they taught their children , and after a long time it came natural to the Mink family to swim . ''
`` Did it take old Mr. Mink very long to learn how ? ''
asked Peter wistfully .
`` Quite a while , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Quite a while .
Perhaps you would like to hear about it . ''
`` Oh , if you please , Grandfather Frog , '' cried Peter .
`` If you please .
I should love dearly to hear about it .
Perhaps then I can learn to swim . ''
Grandfather Frog snapped up a foolish green fly that happened his way , and Peter heard something that sounded very much like a chuckle .
He looked at Grandfather Frog suspiciously .
Was that chuckle because of the foolish green fly , or was Grandfather Frog laughing at him ?
Peter was n't sure .
`` It all happened a long time ago when the world was young , as a great many other things happened , '' began Grandfather Frog .
`` Old Mr. Mink , the ever-so-great-grandfather of Billy Mink , could n't do all the things that Billy can now .
For instance , he could n't swim .
But he could do a great many things , and he was very smart .
It has always run in the Mink family to be smart .
He dressed very much as Billy does now , except that he did n't have the waterproof coat that Billy has .
And he was a great traveler , just as Billy is .
Everybody smaller than he and some who were bigger were a little bit afraid of old Mr. Mink , for he was quite as sly and cunning as Mr. Fox , and it was suspected that he knew a great deal more than he ever admitted about eggs that were stolen and nests that were broken up , and other strange things that happened in the Green Forest and along the Laughing Brook .
But he never was caught doing anything wrong and always seemed to be minding his own business , so , all things considered , he got along very well with his neighbors .
`` Now Mr. Mink was small and spry , and his wits were as nimble as his feet .
He saw all that was going on about him , and he was wise enough to keep his tongue still , so that it never got him into trouble as gossipy tongues do some people I know . ''
Peter Rabbit fidgeted uneasily .
It seemed to him that Grandfather Frog had looked at him very hard when he said this .
But Grandfather Frog just cleared his throat and went on with his story .
`` Yes , Sir , old Mr. Mink kept his eyes wide open and his ears wide open and the wits in his little brown head always working .
He noticed that those who were fussy about what they ate and insisted on having a special kind of food often went hungry or had to hunt long and hard to find what they liked , so he made up his mind to learn to eat many kinds of food .
This is how it happens that he learned to like fish .
His big cousin , Mr. Otter , often caught a bigger fish than he could eat all himself and would leave some of it on the bank .
Mr. Mink would find it and help himself .
`` But having to depend on Mr. Otter to get the fish for him did n't suit Mr. Mink at all .
In the first place , he did n't have as much as he wanted .
And then again he did n't have it when he wanted it .
` If I could learn to catch fish for myself , I would be much better off , ' thought Mr. Mink .
After this he spent a great deal of time on the banks of the Smiling Pool watching Mr. Otter swim to see just how he did it .
` If he can swim , I can swim , ' said Mr. Mink to himself , and went off up the Laughing Brook to a quiet little pool where the water was not deep .
`` At first he did n't like it at all .
The water got in his ears and up his nose and choked him .
And then it was so dreadfully wet !
But he would grit his teeth and keep at it .
After a while he got so that he could paddle around a little .
Gradually he lost his fear of the water .
Then he found that because he naturally moved so quickly he could sometimes catch foolish minnows who swam in where the water was very shallow .
This was great sport , and he quite often had fish for dinner now .
`` But he was n't satisfied .
No , Sir , he was n't satisfied .
Whatever Mr. Mink did , he wanted to do well .
He could run well and climb well , and there was no better hunter in all the Green Forest .
He was bound that he would swim well .
So he kept trying and trying .
He learned to fill his lungs with air and hold his breath for a long time , while he swam as fast as ever he could with his head under water as he had seen his cousin , Mr. Otter , swim .
The more he did this , the longer he could hold his breath .
After a while he found that because he was slim and trim and moved so fast , he could out-swim Mr. Muskrat , and this made him feel very good indeed , for Mr. Muskrat spent nearly all his time in the water and was accounted a very good swimmer .
There was only one thing that bothered Mr. Mink .
The water was so dreadfully wet !
Every time he came out of it , he had to run his hardest to dry off and keep from getting cold .
This was very tiresome and he did wish that there was an easier way of drying off .
`` Then came the bad time , the sad time , when food was scarce , and most of the little people in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadow went hungry .
But Mr. Mink did n't go hungry .
Oh , my , no !
You see , he had learned to catch fish , and so he had plenty to eat .
When Old Mother Nature came to see how all the little people were getting along , she was very much surprised to find that Mr. Mink had become a famous swimmer .
She watched him catch a fish .
Then she watched him run about to dry off and keep from getting cold , and her eyes twinkled . ''
` He who helps himself deserves to be helped , ' said Old Mother Nature .
Mr. Mink did n't know what she meant by that , but the next morning he found out .
Yes , Sir , the next morning he found out .
He found that he had a brand new coat over his old one , and the new one was waterproof .
He could swim as much as he pleased and not get the least bit wet , because the water could n't get through that new coat .
And ever since that long-ago day when the world was young , the Minks have had waterproof coats and have been famous fishermen .
Hello , Peter Rabbit !
What under the sun are you trying to do , swelling yourself up that way ? ''
`` I -- I was just practising holding my breath , '' replied Peter and looked very , very foolish .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laughed Grandfather Frog .
`` You ca n't learn to swim by holding your breath on dry land , Peter Rabbit . ''
III HOW OLD MR. TOAD LEARNED TO SING III HOW OLD MR. TOAD LEARNED TO SING Peter Rabbit never will forget how he laughed the first time he heard Old Mr. Toad say that he could sing and was going to sing .
Why , Peter would as soon think of singing himself , and that is something he can no more do than he can fly .
Peter had known Old Mr. Toad ever since he could remember .
He was rather fond of him , even if he did play jokes on him once in a while .
But he always thought of Old Mr. Toad as one of the homeliest of all his friends , -- slow , awkward , and too commonplace to be very interesting .
So when , in the glad joyousness of the spring , Old Mr. Toad had told Jimmy Skunk that he was going down to the Smiling Pool to sing because without him the great chorus there would lack one of its sweetest voices , Peter and Jimmy had laughed till the tears came .
A few days later Peter happened over to the Smiling Pool for a call on Grandfather Frog .
A mighty chorus of joy from unseen singers rose from all about the Smiling Pool .
Peter knew about those singers .
They were Hylas , the little cousins of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
Peter sat very still on the edge of the bank trying to see one of them .
Suddenly he became aware of a new note , one he never had noticed before and sweeter than any of the others .
Indeed it was one of the sweetest of all the spring songs , as sweet as the love notes of Tommy Tit the Chickadee , than which there is none sweeter .
It seemed to come from the shallow water just in front of Peter , and he looked eagerly for the singer .
Then his eyes opened until it seemed as if they would pop right out of his head , and he dropped his lower jaw foolishly .
There was Old Mr. Toad with a queer bag Peter never had seen before swelled out under his chin , and as surely as Peter was sitting on that bank , it was Old Mr. Toad who was the sweet singer !
Old Mr. Toad paid no attention to Peter , not even when he was spoken to .
He was so absorbed in his singing that he just did n't hear .
Peter sat there a while to listen ; then he called Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum , who were also listening to the music , and they were just as surprised as Peter .
Then he spied Jerry Muskrat at the other end of the Smiling Pool and hurried over there .
Peter was so full of the discovery he had made that he could think of nothing else .
He fairly ached to tell .
`` Jerry ! ''
he cried .
`` Oh , Jerry Muskrat !
Do you know that Old Mr. Toad can sing ? ''
Jerry looked surprised that Peter should ask such a question .
`` Of course I know it , '' said he .
`` It would be mighty funny if I did n't know it , seeing that he is the sweetest singer in the Smiling Pool and has sung here every spring since I can remember . ''
Peter looked very much chagrined .
`` I did n't know it until just how , '' he confessed .
`` I did n't believe him when he told me that he could sing .
I wonder how he ever learned . ''
`` He did n't learn any more than you learned how to jump , '' replied Jerry .
`` It just came to him naturally .
His father sang , and his grandfather , and his great grandfather , way back to the beginning of things .
I thought everybody knew about that . ''
`` I do n't .
Tell me about it .
Please do , Jerry , '' begged Peter .
`` All right , I will , '' replied Jerry good-naturedly .
`` It 's something you ought to know about , anyway .
In the first place , Old Mr. Toad belongs to a very old and honorable family , one of the very oldest .
I 've heard say that it goes way back almost to the very beginning of things when there was n't much land .
Anyway , the first Toad , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Old Mr. Toad and own cousin to the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Grandfather Frog , was one of the first to leave the water for the dry land .
`` Old Mother Nature met him hopping along and making hard work of it because , of course , it was so new .
She looked at him sharply .
` What are you doing here ? '
she demanded .
` Are n't you contented with the water where you were born ? '
`` Mr. Toad bowed very low .
` Yes 'm , ' said he very humbly .
` I 'll go right back there if you say so .
I thought there must be some things worth finding out on the land , and that I might be of some use in the Great World . '
`` His answer pleased Old Mother Nature .
She was worried .
She had planted all kinds of things on the land , and they were springing up everywhere , but she had discovered that bugs of many kinds liked the tender green things and were increasing so fast and were so greedy that they threatened to strip the land of all that she had planted .
She had so many things to attend to that she had n't time to take care of the bugs .
` If you truly want to be of some use , ' said she , ` you can attend to some of those bugs . '
`` Mr. Toad went right to work , and Old Mother Nature went about some other business .
Having so many other things to look after , she quite forgot about Mr. Toad , and it was several weeks before she came that way again .
Right in the middle of a great bare place where the bugs had eaten everything was a beautiful green spot , and patiently hopping from plant to plant was Mr. Toad , snapping up every bug he could see .
He did n't see Old Mother Nature and kept right on working .
She watched him a while as he hopped from plant to plant catching bugs as fast as he could , and then she spoke . ''
` Have you stayed right here ever since I last saw you ? '
she asked .
`` Mr. Toad gave a start of surprise .
` Yes 'm , ' said he . ''
` But I thought you wanted to see the Great World and learn things , ' said she .
`` Mr. Toad looked a little embarrassed .
` So I did , ' he replied , ` but I wanted to be of some use , and the bugs have kept me so busy there was no time to travel .
Besides , I have learned a great deal right here .
I -- I could n't get around fast enough to save all the plants , but I have saved what I could . '
`` Old Mother Nature was more pleased than she was willing to show , for Mr. Toad was the first of all the little people who had tried to help her , and he had done what he could willingly and faithfully . '' '
I suppose , ' said she , speaking a little gruffly , ` you expect me to reward you . '
`` Mr. Toad looked surprised and a little hurt . '
I do n't want any reward , ' said he . '
I did n't do it for that .
It will be reward enough to know that I really have helped and to be allowed to continue to help . '
`` At that Old Mother Nature 's face lighted with one of her most beautiful smiles .
` Mr. Toad , ' said she , ` if you could have just what you want , what would it be ? '
`` Mr. Toad hesitated a few minutes and then said shyly , ' A beautiful voice . '
`` It was Old Mother Nature 's turn to look surprised . '
A beautiful voice ! '
she exclaimed .
` Pray , why do you want a beautiful voice ? ' ''
` So that I can express my happiness in the most beautiful way I know of , -- by singing , ' replied Mr. Toad . ''
` You shall have it , ' declared Old Mother Nature , ` but not all the time lest you be tempted to forget your work , which , you know , is the real source of true happiness .
In the spring of each year you shall go back to your home in the water , and there for a time you shall sing to your heart 's content , and there shall be no sweeter voice than yours . '
`` Sure enough , when the next spring came , Mr. Toad was filled with a great longing to go home .
When he got there , he found that in his throat was a little music bag ; and when he swelled it out , he had one of the sweetest voices in the world .
And so it has been ever since with the Toad family .
Old Mr. Toad is one of the sweetest singers in the Smiling Pool , but when it is time to go back to work he never grumbles , but is one of the most faithful workers in Mother Nature 's garden , '' concluded Jerry Muskrat .
Peter sighed .
`` I never could work , '' said he .
`` Perhaps that is why I can not sing . ''
`` Very likely , '' replied Jerry Muskrat , quite forgetting that he can not sing himself although he is a great worker .
IV HOW OLD MR. CROW LOST HIS DOUBLE TONGUE IV HOW OLD MR. CROW LOST HIS DOUBLE TONGUE `` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
Blacky the Crow sat in the top of a tall tree and seemed trying to see just how much noise he could make with that harsh voice of his .
Peter Rabbit peered out from the dear Old Briar-patch and frowned .
`` If I had a voice as unpleasant as that , I 'd forget I could talk .
Yes , Sir , I 'd forget I had a tongue , '' declared Peter .
Somebody laughed , and Peter turned quickly to find Jimmy Skunk .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` At the idea of you forgetting that you had a tongue , '' replied Jimmy .
`` Well , I would if I had a voice like Blacky 's , '' persisted Peter , although he grinned a wee bit foolishly as he looked at Jimmy Skunk , for you know Peter is a great gossip .
`` It 's lucky for you that you have n't then , '' retorted Jimmy .
`` I 'm afraid that you would lose your tongue just as old Mr. Crow did . ''
That sounded like a story .
Right away Peter sat up and took notice .
`` Did old Mr. Crow really lose his tongue ?
How did he lose it ?
Why did he lose it ?
When -- '' Jimmy Skunk clapped a hand over each ear and pretended that he was going to run away .
Peter jumped in front of him .
`` No , you do n't ! ''
he cried .
`` You 've just got to tell me that story , Jimmy Skunk . ''
`` What story ? ''
asked Jimmy , as if he had n't the least idea in the world what Peter was talking about , though of course he knew perfectly well .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow from the distant tree-top .
`` The story of how old Mr. Crow lost his tongue .
You may as well tell me first as last , because I 'll give you no peace until you do , '' insisted Peter .
Jimmy grinned .
`` If that 's the case , I guess I 'll have to , '' said he .
`` Wait until I find a comfortable place to sit down .
I never could tell a story standing up . ''
At last he found a place to suit him and after changing his position two or three times to make sure that he was perfectly comfortable , he began .
`` Once upon a time -- '' `` Never mind about that , '' interrupted Peter .
`` I do n't see why all stories have to begin ` Once upon a time . '
It seems as if everything interesting happened long ago . ''
`` If you do n't watch out , this story wo n't begin at all , '' declared Jimmy .
Peter looked properly ashamed for interrupting , and Jimmy started again .
`` Once upon a time old Mr. Crow , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Blacky , over there , possessed the most wonderful tongue of any of the little people who ran , walked , crawled , or flew .
He could imitate any and everybody , and he did .
He could sing like Mr. Meadow Lark , or he could bark like Mr. Wolf .
He could whistle like Mr. Quail , or he could growl like old King Bear .
There was n't anybody whose voice he could n't imitate and do it so well that if you had been there and heard but not seen him , you never would have guessed that it was an imitation .
`` Now the imp of mischief was in old Mr. Crow , just as it is in Blacky to-day , and he was smart too .
There was n't anybody smarter than old Mr. Crow .
It 's from him that Blacky gets his smartness .
It did n't take him long to discover that no one else had such a wonderful tongue .
It was even more wonderful than the tongue of old Mr. Mocker the Mocking Bird .
Mr. Mocker could imitate the songs of other birds , but old Mr. Crow could imitate anybody , as I have said .
He puzzled over it a good deal himself for a while .
He could n't understand how he could make any sound he pleased , while his neighbors could make only a few special sounds .
`` Being very smart and shrewd , just as Blacky is , he finally made up his mind that it must be in his tongue .
As soon as he thought of that , he started out to find out , and on one excuse or another he managed to get all his neighbors to show him their tongues .
Sure enough , his own tongue was different from any of the others .
It was split a little , so that it was almost like two tongues in one . ''
` That 's it , ' he chuckled . '
I knew it .
It 's this little old tongue of mine .
Nobody else has got one like it , but nobody knows that but me .
I must make good use of it .
Yes , Sir , I must make good use of it . '
`` Now when old Mr. Crow said that , he did n't really mean good use at all .
That is , he did n't mean what you or I or any of his neighbors would have called good use .
What he did mean was the use that would bring to himself the greatest gain in pleasure , and being a great joker , he began by having a lot of fun with his neighbors .
When he saw Mr. Rabbit , your grandfather a thousand times removed , coming along , he would hide , and just as Mr. Rabbit was passing , he would snarl like Mr. Lynx .
Of course Mr. Rabbit would be scared almost to death , and away he would go , lipperty-lipperty-lip , and old Mr. Crow would laugh so that he had to hold his black sides .
He would hide in the top of a tree near Mr. Squirrel 's home , and just when Mr. Squirrel had found a fat nut and started to eat it , he would scream like Mr. Hawk and then laugh to see Mr. Squirrel drop his nut and dive headfirst into the nearest hole .
He would squeak like a mouse when Mr. Fox was passing , just to see Mr. Fox hunt and hunt for the dinner he felt sure was close at hand .
`` But after a while Mr. Crow was n't satisfied with harmless jokes .
Times were getting hard , and everybody had to work to get enough to eat .
This did n't suit Mr. Crow at all , and one day when he chanced to discover one of his neighbors just sitting down to a good meal , a new idea came to him .
He stole as near as he could without being seen and suddenly growled like old King Bear .
Of course that meal was left in a hurry .
` It is too bad to see all that good food go to waste , ' said Mr. Crow and promptly ate it .
`` After that , instead of hunting for food himself , he just kept a sharp eye on his neighbors , and when they had found something he wanted , he frightened them away and helped himself .
All the time he was so sly about it that never once was he suspected .
He was a great talker , was Mr. Crow , and spent a great deal of time gossiping , and he was always one of the first to offer sympathy to those who had lost a meal .
`` Now all this time , unknown to old Mr. Crow , Old Mother Nature knew just what was going on , for you ca n't fool her , and it 's of no use to try .
One morning Mr. Crow discovered Mr. Coon just sitting down to a good breakfast .
He stole up behind Mr. Coon and opened his mouth to bark like Mr. Coyote , but instead of a bark , there came forth a harsh ` Caw , caw , caw . '
It is a question which was the more surprised , Mr. Coon or Mr. Crow .
Mr. Coon did n't forget his manners .
He politely invited Mr. Crow to sit down and take breakfast with him .
But Mr. Crow had lost his appetite .
Somehow his tongue felt very queer .
He thanked Mr. Coon and begged to be excused .
Then he hurried over to the nearest pool of water in which he could see his reflection and stuck out his tongue .
It was no longer split into a double tongue .
Then old Mr. Crow guessed that Old Mother Nature had found him out and punished him , but to make sure , he flew to the most lonesome place he knew of , and there he tried to imitate the voices of his neighbors ; but try as he would , all he could say was ` Caw , caw , caw . '
`` For a long , long time after that no one ever heard Mr. Crow say a word .
His neighbors did n't know what to make of it , for you remember he had been a great gossip .
They said that he must have lost his tongue .
Of course he had n't , but he felt that he might as well have .
And ever since then the Crow family has had the harshest of all voices . ''
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky from the top of the tree where he was sitting .
`` I wonder , '' said Peter Rabbit thoughtfully , `` if he could imitate other people if his tongue should be split . ''
`` I 've heard say that he could , '' replied Jimmy Skunk , `` but I do n't know .
One thing is sure , and that is that he is just as smart and sly as his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather was , and I guess it is just as well that his tongue is just as it is . ''
V HOW HOWLER THE WOLF GOT HIS NAME V HOW HOWLER THE WOLF GOT HIS NAME Peter Rabbit never had seen Howler the Wolf , but he had heard his voice in the distance , and the mere sound had given him cold shivers .
It just went all through him .
It was very different from the voice of Old Man Coyote .
The latter is bad enough , sounding as it does like many voices , but there is not in it that terrible fierceness which the voice of his big cousin contains .
Peter had no desire to hear it any nearer .
The first time he met his cousin , Jumper the Hare , he asked him about Howler , for Jumper had come down to the Green Forest from the Great Woods where Howler lives and is feared .
`` Did you hear him ? ''
exclaimed Jumper .
`` I hope he wo n't take it into his head to come down here .
I do n't believe he will , because it is too near the homes of men .
If the sound of his voice way off there gave you cold shivers , I 'm afraid you 'd shake all to pieces if you heard him close by .
He 's just as fierce as his voice sounds .
There is one thing about him that I like , though , and that is that he gives fair warning when he is hunting .
He does n't come sneaking about without a sound , like Tufty the Lynx .
He hunts like Bowser the Hound and lets you know that he is out hunting .
Did you ever hear how he got his name ? ''
`` No .
How did he get his name ? ''
asked Peter eagerly .
`` Well , of course it 's a family name now and is handed down and has been for years and years , ever since the first Wolf began hunting way back when the world was young , '' explained Jumper .
`` For a long time the first Wolf had no name .
Most of the other animals and birds had names , but nothing seemed to just fit the big gray Wolf .
He looked a great deal like his cousin , Mr. Dog , and still more like his other cousin , Mr. Coyote .
But he was stronger than either , could run farther and faster than either , and had quite as wonderful a nose as either .
`` With Mr. Wolf , as with all the other animals , life was an easy matter at first .
There was plenty to eat , and everybody was on good terms with everybody else .
But there came a time , as you know , when food became scarce .
It was then that the big learned to hunt the small , and fear was born into the world .
Mr. Wolf was swift of leg and keen of nose .
His teeth were long and sharp , and he was so strong that there were few he feared to fight with .
In fact , he did n't know fear at all , for he simply kept out of the way of those who were too big and strong for him to fight .
`` Most people like to do the things they know they can do well .
Mr. Wolf early learned the joy of hunting .
I ca n't understand it myself .
Can you ? ''
Peter shook his head .
You see neither Jumper nor Peter ever have hunted any one in all their lives .
It is always they who are hunted .
`` Perhaps it was because he was so strong of wind and leg that he enjoyed running , and because he was so keen of nose that he enjoyed following a trail .
Anyway , he scorned to spend his time sneaking about as did his cousin , Mr. Coyote , but chose to follow the swiftest runners and to match his nose and speed and skill against their speed and wits .
He did n't bother to hunt little people like us when there were big people like Mr. Deer .
The longer and harder the hunt , the more Mr. Wolf seemed to enjoy it .
`` At first he hunted silently , running swiftly with his nose to the ground .
But this gave the ones he hunted very little chance ; he was upon them before they even suspected that he was on their trail .
It always made Mr. Wolf feel mean .
He never could hold his head and his tail up after that kind of a hunt .
He felt so like a sneak that he just had to put his tail between his legs for very shame .
There was nothing to be proud about in such a hunt .
`` One night he sat thinking about it .
Gentle Mistress Moon looked down at him through the tree-tops , and something inside him urged him to tell her his troubles .
He pointed his sharp nose up at her , opened his mouth and , because she was so far away , did his best to make her hear .
That was the very first Wolf howl ever heard .
There was something very lonely and shivery and terrible in the sound , and all who heard it shook with fear .
Mr. Wolf did n't know this , but he did know that he felt better for howling .
So every night he pointed his nose up at Mistress Moon and howled .
`` It happened that once as he did this , a Deer jumped at the first sound and rushed away in great fright .
This gave Mr. Wolf an idea .
The next day when he went hunting he threw up his head and howled at the very first smell of fresh tracks .
That day he had the longest hunt he ever had known , for the Deer had had fair warning .
Mr. Wolf did n't get the Deer , because the latter swam across a lake and so got away , but he returned home in high spirits in spite of an empty stomach .
You see , he felt that it had been a fair hunt .
After that he always gave fair warning .
As he ran , he howled for very joy .
No longer did he carry his bushy tail between his legs , for no longer did he feel like a coward and a sneak .
Instead , he carried it proudly .
Of all the animals who hunted , he was the only one who gave fair warning , and he felt that he had a right to be proud .
All the others hunted by stealth .
He alone hunted openly and boldly .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Old King Bear , who was king no longer , would growl a deep , rumbly-grumbly growl . ''
Page 66 . -RSB-
`` Now this earned for him first the dislike and then the hatred of the other hunters .
You see , when he was hunting , he spoiled the hunting of those who stole soft-footed through the Green Forest and caught their victims by surprise .
The little people heard his voice and either hid away or were on guard , so that it was hard work for the silent hunters to surprise them .
At the sound of his hunting cry , old King Bear , who was king no longer , would growl a deep , rumbly-grumbly growl , though he did n't mind so much as some , because he did very little hunting .
He would n't have done any if food had not been so scarce , because he would have been entirely satisfied with berries and roots , if he could have found enough .
Mr. Lynx and Mr. Panther would snarl angrily .
Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox would show their teeth and mutter about what they would do to Mr. Wolf if only they were big enough and strong enough and brave enough .
`` Of course , it was n't long before Mr. Wolf discovered that he had no friends .
The little people feared him , and the big people hated him because he spoiled their hunting .
But he did n't mind .
In fact , he looked down on Mr. Lynx and Mr. Panther and Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox , and when he met them , he lifted his tail a little more proudly than ever .
Sometimes he would howl out of pure mischief just to spoil the hunting of the others .
So , little by little , he began to be spoken of as Howler the Wolf , and after a while everybody called him Howler .
`` Of course , Howler taught his children how to hunt and that the only honorable and fair way was to give those they hunted fair warning .
So it grew to be a fixed habit of the Wolf family to give fair warning that they were abroad and then trust to their wind and wits and speed and noses to catch those they were after .
The result was that they grew strong , able to travel long distances , keen of nose , and sharp of wit .
Because the big people hated them , and the little people feared them , they lived by themselves and so formed the habit of hunting together for company .
`` It has been so ever since , and the name Howler has been handed down to this day .
No sound in all the Great Woods carries with it more fear than does the voice of Howler the Wolf , and no one hunts so openly , boldly , and honorably .
Be thankful , Peter , that Howler never comes down to the Green Forest , but stays far from the homes of men . ''
`` I am , '' replied Peter .
`` Just the same , I think he deserves a better name for the fair way in which he hunts , though his name certainly does fit him .
I would a lot rather be caught by some one who had given me fair warning than by some one who came sneaking after me and gave me no warning .
But I do n't want to be caught at all , so I think I 'll hurry back to the dear Old Briar-patch . ''
And Peter did .
VI HOW OLD MR. SQUIRREL BECAME THRIFTY VI HOW OLD MR. SQUIRREL BECAME THRIFTY Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool and shook his head reprovingly at Peter Rabbit .
Peter is such a happy-go-lucky little fellow that he never thinks of anything but the good time he can have in the present .
He never looks ahead to the future .
So of course Peter seldom worries .
If the sun shines to-day , Peter takes it for granted that it will shine to-morrow ; so he hops and skips and has a good time and just trusts to luck .
Now Grandfather Frog is very old and very wise , and he does n't believe in luck .
No , Sir , Grandfather Frog does n't believe in luck .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
says Grandfather Frog , `` Luck never just happens .
What people call bad luck is just the result of their own foolishness or carelessness or both , and what people call good luck is just the result of their own wisdom and carefulness and common sense . ''
Peter Rabbit had been making fun of Happy Jack Squirrel because Happy Jack said that he had too much to do to stop and play that morning .
Here it was summer , and winter was a long way off .
What was summer for if not to play in and have a good time ?
Yet Happy Jack was already thinking of winter and was hunting for a new storehouse so as to have it ready when the time to fill it with nuts should come .
It was much better to play and take sun-naps among the buttercups and daisies and just have a good time all day long .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , `` Did you ever hear how old Mr. Squirrel learned thrift ? ''
`` No , '' cried Peter Rabbit , stretching himself out in the soft grass on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Do tell us about it .
Please do , Grandfather Frog ! ''
You know Peter dearly loves a story .
All the other little meadow and forest people who were about the Smiling Pool joined Peter Rabbit in begging Grandfather Frog for the story , and after they had teased for it a long time -LRB- Grandfather Frog dearly loves to be teased -RRB- , he cleared his throat and began .
`` Once upon a time when the world was young , in the days when old King Bear ruled in the Green Forest , everybody had to take King Bear presents of things to eat .
That was because he was king .
You know kings never have to work like other people to get enough to eat ; everybody brings them a little of their best , and so kings have the best in the land without the trouble of working for it .
It was just this way with old King Bear .
That was before he grew so fat and lazy and selfish that Old Mother Nature declared that he should be king no longer .
`` Now in those days lived old Mr. Squirrel , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Happy Jack Squirrel whom you all know .
Of course , he was n't old then .
He was young and frisky , just like Happy Jack , and he was a great favorite with old King Bear .
He was a saucy fellow , was Mr. Squirrel , and he used to spend most of his time playing tricks on the other meadow and forest people .
He even dared to play jokes on old King Bear .
Sometimes old King Bear would lose his temper , and then Mr. Squirrel would whisk up in the top of a tall tree and keep out of sight until old King Bear had recovered his good nature .
`` Those were happy days , very happy days indeed , and old King Bear was a very wise ruler .
There was plenty of everything to eat , and so nobody missed the little they brought to old King Bear .
Having so much brought to him , he grew very particular .
Yes , Sir , old King Bear grew very particular indeed .
Some began to whisper behind his back that he was fussy .
He would pick out the very best of everything for himself and give the rest to his family and special friends or else just let it go to waste .
`` Now old King Bear was very fond of lively little Mr. Squirrel , and often he would give Mr. Squirrel some of the good things for which he had no room in his own stomach .
Mr. Squirrel was smart .
He soon found out that the more he amused old King Bear , the more of King Bear 's good things he had .
It was a lot easier to get his living this way than to hunt for his food as he always had in the past .
Besides , it was a lot more fun .
So little Mr. Squirrel studied how to please old King Bear , and he grew fat on the good things which other people had earned .
`` One day old King Bear gave little Mr. Squirrel six big , fat nuts .
You see , old King Bear did n't care for nuts himself , not the kind with the hard shells , anyway , so he really was n't as generous as he seemed , which is the way with a great many people .
It is easy to give what you do n't want yourself .
Little Mr. Squirrel bowed very low and thanked old King Bear in his best manner .
He really did n't want those nuts , for his stomach was full at the time , but it would n't do to refuse a gift from the king .
So he took the nuts and pretended to be delighted with them . ''
` What shall I do with them ? '
said little Mr. Squirrel as soon as he was alone .
` It wo n't do for me to leave them where old King Bear will find them , for it might make him very angry . '
At last he remembered a certain hollow tree .
` The very place ! '
cried little Mr. Squirrel .
` I 'll drop them in there , and no one will be any the wiser . '
`` No sooner thought of than it was done , and little Mr. Squirrel frisked away in his usual happy-go-lucky fashion and forgot all about the nuts in the hollow tree .
It was n't very long after this that Old Mother Nature began to hear complaints of old King Bear and his rule in the Green Forest .
He had grown fat and lazy , and all his relatives had grown fat and lazy because , you see , none of them had to work for the things they ate .
The little forest and meadow people were growing tired of feeding the Bear family .
It was just at the beginning of winter when Old Mother Nature came to see for herself what the trouble was .
It did n't take her long to find out .
No , Sir , it did n't take her long .
You ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
She took one good look at old King Bear nodding in the cave where he used to sleep .
He was so fat he looked as if he would burst his skin .
`` Old Mother Nature frowned .
` You are such a lazy fellow that you shall be king no longer .
Instead , you shall sleep all winter and grow thin and thinner till you awake in the spring , and then you will have to hunt for your own food , for never again shall you live on the gifts of others , ' said she .
`` All the little forest and meadow people who had been bringing tribute , that is things to eat , to old King Bear rejoiced that they need do so no longer and went about their business .
All of old King Bear 's family , including his cousin Mr. Coon , had been put to sleep just like old King Bear himself .
Yes , Sir , they were all asleep , fast asleep .
`` Little Mr. Squirrel felt lonesome .
He grew more lonesome every day .
None of the other little people would have anything to do with him because they remembered how he had lived without working when he was the favorite of King Bear .
The weather was cold , and it was hard work to find anything to eat .
Mr. Squirrel was hungry all the time .
He could n't think of anything but his stomach and how empty it was .
He grew thin and thinner .
`` One cold day when the snow covered the earth , little Mr. Squirrel went without breakfast .
Then he went without dinner .
You see , he could n't find so much as a pine-seed to eat .
Late in the afternoon he crept into a hollow tree to get away from the cold , bitter wind .
He was very tired and very cold and very , very hungry .
Tears filled his eyes and ran over and dripped from his nose .
He curled up on the leaves at the bottom of the hollow to try to go to sleep and forget .
Under him was something hard .
He twisted and turned , but he could n't get in a comfortable position .
Finally he looked to see what the trouble was caused by .
What do you think he found ?
Six big , fat nuts !
Yes , Sir , six big , fat nuts !
Little Mr. Squirrel was so glad that he cried for very joy .
`` When he had eaten two , he felt better and decided to keep the others for the next day .
Then he began to wonder how those nuts happened to be in that hollow tree .
He thought and thought , and at last he remembered how he had hidden six nuts in this very hollow a long time before , when he had had more than he knew what to do with .
These were the very nuts , the present of old King Bear .
`` Right then as he thought about it , little Mr. Squirrel had a bright idea .
He made up his mind that thereafter he would stop his happy-go-lucky idleness , and the first time that ever he found plenty of food , he would fill that hollow tree just as full as he could pack it , and then if there should come a time when food was scarce , he would have plenty .
And that is just what he did do .
The next fall when nuts were plentiful , he worked from morning till night storing them away in the hollow tree , and all that winter he was happy and fat , for he had plenty to eat .
He never had to beg of any one .
He had learned to save .
`` And ever since then the Squirrels have been among the wisest of all the little forest people and always the busiest .
`` The Squirrel family long since learned That things are best when duly earned ; That play and fun are found in work By him who does not try to shirk .
`` And that 's all , '' finished Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you !
Thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit .
VII HOW LIGHTFOOT THE DEER LEARNED TO JUMP VII HOW LIGHTFOOT THE DEER LEARNED TO JUMP It is n't often that Peter Rabbit is filled with envy .
As a rule , Peter is very free from anything like envy .
Usually he is quite content with the gifts bestowed upon him by Old Mother Nature , and if others have more than he has , he is glad for them and wastes no time fretting because he has not been so fortunate .
But once in a great while Peter becomes really and truly envious .
It was that way the first time he saw Lightfoot the Deer leap over a fallen tree , and ever after , when he saw Lightfoot , a little of that same feeling stirred in his heart .
You see , Peter always had been very proud of his own powers of jumping .
To be sure Jumper the Hare could jump higher and farther than he could , but Jumper is his own cousin , so it was all in the family , so to speak , and Peter did n't mind .
But to see Lightfoot the Deer go sailing over the tops of the bushes and over the fallen trees as if he had springs in his legs was quite another matter .
`` I wish I could jump like that , '' said Peter right out loud one day , as he stood with his hands on his hips watching Lightfoot leap over a pile of brush .
`` Why do n't you learn to ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk with a mischievous twinkle in the eye which Peter could n't see .
`` Lightfoot could n't always jump like that ; he had to learn .
Why do n't you find out how ?
Probably Grandfather Frog knows all about it .
He knows about almost everything .
If I were you , I 'd ask him . ''
`` I -- I -- I do n't just like to , '' replied Peter .
`` I 've asked him so many questions that I am afraid he 'll think me a nuisance .
I tell you what , Jimmy , you ask him ! ''
Peter 's eyes brightened as he said this .
Jimmy chuckled .
`` No , you do n't ! ''
said he .
`` If there is anything you want to know from Grandfather Frog , ask him yourself .
I do n't want to know how Lightfoot learned to jump .
He may jump over the moon , for all I care .
Have you seen any fat beetles this morning , Peter ? ''
`` No , '' replied Peter shortly .
`` I 'm not interested in beetles .
There may never be any fat beetles , for all I care . ''
Jimmy laughed .
It was a good-natured , chuckling kind of a laugh .
`` Do n't get huffy , Peter , '' said he .
`` Here 's hoping that you learn how to jump like Lightfoot the Deer , and that I get a stomachful of fat beetles . ''
With that Jimmy Skunk slowly ambled along down the Crooked Little Path .
Peter watched him out of sight , sighed , started for the dear Old Briar-patch , stopped , sighed again , and then headed straight for the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog was there on his big green lily-pad , and Peter wasted no time .
`` How did Lightfoot the Deer learn to jump so splendidly , Grandfather Frog ? ''
he blurted out almost before he had stopped running .
Grandfather Frog blinked his great , goggly eyes .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he .
`` If you 'll jump across the Laughing Brook over there where it comes into the Smiling Pool , I 'll tell you . ''
Peter looked at the Laughing Brook in dismay .
It was quite wide at that point .
`` I -- I ca n't , '' he stammered .
`` Then I ca n't tell you how Lightfoot learned to jump , '' replied Grandfather Frog , quite as if the matter were settled .
`` I -- I 'll try ! ''
Peter hastened to blurt out .
`` All right .
While you are trying , I 'll see if I can remember the story , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
Peter went back a little so as to get a good start .
Then he ran as hard as he knew how , and when he reached the bank of the Laughing Brook , he jumped with all his might .
It was a good jump -- a splendid jump -- but it was n't quite enough of a jump , and Peter landed with a great splash in the water !
Grandfather Frog opened his great mouth as wide as he could , which is very wide indeed , and laughed until the tears rolled down from his great , goggly eyes .
Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink rolled over and over on the bank , laughing until their sides ached .
Even Spotty the Turtle smiled , which is very unusual for Spotty .
Now Peter does not like the water , and though he can swim , he does n't feel at all at home in it .
He paddled for the shore as fast as he could , and in his heart was something very like anger .
No one likes to be laughed at .
Peter intended to start for home the very minute he reached the shore .
But just before his feet touched bottom , he heard the great , deep voice of Grandfather Frog .
`` That is just the way Lightfoot the Deer learned to jump -- trying to do what he could n't do and keeping at it until he could .
It all happened a great while ago when the world was young . ''
Grandfather Frog was talking quite as if nothing had happened , and he had never thought of laughing .
Peter was so put out that he wanted to keep right on , but he just could n't miss that story .
His curiosity would n't let him .
So he shook himself and then lay down in the sunniest spot he could find within hearing .
`` Lightfoot 's great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather was named Lightfoot too , and was not a whit less handsome than Lightfoot is now , '' continued Grandfather Frog in his best story-telling voice .
`` He had just such slim legs as Lightfoot has now and just such wonderful , branching horns .
When he had the latter , he was not much afraid of anybody .
Those enemies swift enough of foot to catch him he could successfully fight with his horns , and those too big and strong for him to fight were not swift enough to catch him .
But there was a season in every year when he had no horns , as is the case with Lightfoot .
You know , or ought to know , that every spring Lightfoot loses his horns and through the summer a new pair grows .
It was so with Mr. Deer of that long-ago time , and when he lost those great horns , he felt very helpless and timid .
`` Now old Mr. Deer loved the open meadows and spent most of his time there .
When he had to run , he wanted nothing in the way of his slim legs .
And how he could run !
My , my , my , how he could run !
But there were others who could run swiftly in those days too , -- Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dog .
Mr. Deer always had a feeling that some day one or the other would catch him .
When he had his horns , this thought did n't worry him much , but when he had lost his horns , it worried him a great deal .
He felt perfectly helpless then .
` The thing for me to do is to keep out of sight , ' said he to himself , and so instead of going out on the meadows and in the open places , he hid among the bushes and in the brush on the edge of the Green Forest and behind the fallen trees in the Green Forest .
`` But one thing troubled old Mr. Deer , who was n't old then , you know .
Yes , Sir , one thing troubled him a great deal .
He could n't run fast at all among the bushes and the fallen trees and the old logs .
This was a new worry , and it troubled him almost as much as the old worry .
He felt that he was in a dreadful fix .
You see , hard times had come , and the big and strong were preying on the weak and small in order to live . ''
` If I stay out on the meadows , I can not fight if I am caught ; and if I stay here , I can not run fast if I am found by my enemies .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
What shall I do ? '
cried Mr. Deer , as he lay hidden among the branches of a fallen hemlock-tree .
`` Just at that very minute along came Mr. Hare , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of your cousin Jumper .
A big log was in his path , and he jumped over it as lightly as a feather .
Mr. Deer watched him and sighed .
If only he could jump like that in proportion to his size , he would just jump over the bushes and the fallen logs and the fallen trees instead of trying to run around them or squeeze between them .
Right then he had an idea .
Why should n't he learn to jump ?
He could try , anyway .
So when he was sure that no one was around to see him , he practised jumping over little low bushes .
At first he could n't do much , but he kept trying and trying , and little by little he jumped higher .
It was hard work , and he scraped his slim legs many times when he tried to jump over old logs and stumps .
`` Now all this time some one had been watching him , though he did n't know it .
It was Old Mother Nature .
One day she stopped him as he was trotting along a path .
` What is this you are doing when you think no one is watching ? '
she demanded , looking very cross .
` Have n't I given you beauty and speed ?
And yet you are not satisfied ! '
Mr. Deer hung his head .
Then suddenly he threw it up proudly and told Old Mother Nature that he had not complained , but that through his own efforts he was just trying to add to the blessings which he did have , and he explained why he wanted to learn to jump .
Old Mother Nature heard him through .
` Let me see you jump over that bush , ' she snapped crossly , pointing to a bush almost as high as Mr. Deer himself . ''
` Oh , I ca n't jump nearly as high as that ! '
he cried .
Then tossing his head proudly , he added , ` But I 'll try . '
So just as Peter Rabbit tried to jump the Laughing Brook when he felt sure that he could n't , Mr. Deer tried to jump the bush .
Just imagine how surprised he was when he sailed over it without even touching the top of it with his hoofs !
Old Mother Nature had given him the gift of jumping as a reward for his perseverance and because she saw that he really had need of it .
`` So ever since that long-ago day , the Deer have lived where the brush is thickest and the Green Forest most tangled , because they are such great jumpers that they can travel faster there than their enemies , and they are no longer so swift of foot in the open meadows .
Now , Peter , let 's see you jump over the Laughing Brook . ''
What do you think Peter did ?
Why , he tried again , and laughed just as hard as the others when once more he landed in the water with a great splash .
VIII HOW MR. FLYING SQUIRREL ALMOST GOT WINGS VIII HOW MR. FLYING SQUIRREL ALMOST GOT WINGS Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit were having a dispute .
It was a good-natured dispute , but both Jimmy and Peter are very decided in their opinions , and neither would give in to the other .
Finally they decided that as neither could convince the other , they should leave it for Grandfather Frog to decide which was right .
So they straightway started for the Smiling Pool , where on his big green lily-pad Grandfather Frog was enjoying the twilight and leading the great Frog chorus .
Both agreed that they would accept Grandfather Frog 's decision .
You see , each was sure that he was right .
When they reached the Smiling Pool , they found Grandfather Frog looking very comfortable and old and wise .
`` Good evening , Grandfather Frog .
I hope you are feeling just as fine as you look , '' said Jimmy Skunk , who never forgets to be polite .
`` Chug-a-rum !
I 'm feeling very well , thank you , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` What brings you to the Smiling Pool this fine evening ? ''
He looked very hard at Peter Rabbit , for he suspected that Peter had come for a story .
`` To get the wisest person of whom we know to decide a matter on which Peter and I can not agree ; and who is there so wise as Grandfather Frog ? ''
replied Jimmy .
Grandfather Frog looked immensely pleased .
It always pleases him to be considered wise .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he gruffly .
`` You have a very smooth tongue , Jimmy Skunk .
But what is this matter on which you can not agree ? ''
`` How many animals can fly ? ''
returned Jimmy , by way of answer .
`` One , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` I thought everybody knew that .
Flitter the Bat is the only animal who can fly . ''
`` You forget Timmy , the Flying Squirrel ! ''
cried Peter excitedly .
`` That makes two . ''
Grandfather Frog shook his head .
`` Peter , Peter , whatever is the matter with those eyes of yours ? ''
he exclaimed .
`` They certainly are big enough .
I wonder if you ever will learn to use them .
Half-seeing is sometimes worse than not seeing at all .
Timmy can not fly any more than I can . ''
`` What did I tell you ? ''
cried Jimmy Skunk triumphantly .
`` But I 've seen him fly lots of times ! ''
persisted Peter .
`` I guess that any one who has envied him as often as I have ought to know . ''
`` Hump ! ''
grunted Grandfather Frog .
`` I guess that 's the trouble .
There was so much envy that it got into your eyes , and you could n't see straight .
Envy is a bad thing . ''
Jimmy Skunk chuckled .
`` Did you ever see him away from trees ? ''
continued Grandfather Frog .
`` No , '' confessed Peter .
`` Did you ever see him cut circles in the air like Flitter the Bat ? ''
`` No-o , '' replied Peter slowly .
`` Of course not , '' retorted Grandfather Frog .
`` The reason is because he does n't fly .
He has n't any wings .
What he does do is to coast on the air .
He 's the greatest jumper and coaster in the Green Forest . ''
`` Coast on the air ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` I never heard of such a thing . ''
`` There are many things you never have heard of , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Sit down , Peter , and stop fidgeting , and I 'll tell you a story . ''
The very word story was enough to make Peter forget everything else , and he promptly sat down with his big eyes fixed on Grandfather Frog .
`` It happened , '' began Grandfather Frog , `` that way back in the beginning of things , there lived a very timid member of the Squirrel family , own cousin to Mr. Red Squirrel and Mr. Gray Squirrel , but not at all like them , for he was very gentle and very shy .
Perhaps this was partly because he was very small and was not big enough or strong enough to fight his way as the others did .
In fact , this little Mr. Squirrel was so timid that he preferred to stay out of sight during the day , when so many were abroad .
He felt safer in the dusk of evening , and so he used to wait until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had gone to bed behind the Purple Hills before he ventured out to hunt for his food .
Then his quarrelsome cousins had gone to bed , and there was no one to drive him away when he found a feast of good things .
`` But even at night there was plenty of danger .
There was Mr. Owl to be watched out for , and other night prowlers .
In fact , little Mr. Squirrel did n't feel safe on the ground a minute , and so he kept to the trees as much as possible .
Of course , when the branches of one tree reached to the branches of another tree , it was an easy matter to travel through the tree-tops , but every once in a while there would be open places to cross , and many a fright did timid little Mr. Squirrel have as he scampered across these open places .
He used to sit and watch old Mr. Bat flying about and wish that he had wings .
Then he thought how foolish it was to wish for something he had n't got and could n't have . ''
` The thing to do , ' said little Mr. Squirrel to himself , ` is to make the most of what I have got .
Now I am a pretty good jumper , but if I keep jumping , perhaps I can learn to jump better than I do now . '
`` So every night Mr. Squirrel used to go off by himself , where he was sure no one would see him , and practise jumping .
He would climb an old stump and then jump as far as he could .
Then he would do it all over again ever so many times , and after a little he found that he went farther , quite a little farther , than when he began .
Then one night he made a discovery .
He found that by spreading his arms and legs out just as far as possible and making himself as flat as he could , he could go almost twice as far as he had been able to go before , and he landed a great deal easier .
It was like sliding down on the air .
It was great fun , and pretty soon he was spending all his spare time doing it .
`` One moonlight night , Old Mother Nature happened along and sat down on a log to watch him .
Little Mr. Squirrel did n't see her , and when at last she asked him what he was doing , he was so surprised and confused that he could hardly find his tongue .
At last he told her that he was trying to learn to jump better that he might better take care of himself .
The idea pleased Old Mother Nature .
You know she is always pleased when she finds people trying to help themselves . ''
` That 's a splendid idea , ' said she .
` I 'll help you .
I 'll make you the greatest jumper in the Green Forest . '
`` Then she gave to little Mr. Squirrel something almost but not quite like wings .
Between his fore legs and hind legs on each side she stretched a piece of skin that folded right down against his body when he was walking or running so as to hardly show and was n't in the way at all . ''
` Now , ' said she , ` climb that tall tree over yonder clear to the top and then jump with all your might for that tree over there across that open place . '
`` It was ten times as far as little Mr. Squirrel ever had jumped before , and the tree was so tall that he felt sure that he would break his neck when he struck the ground .
He was afraid , very much afraid .
But Old Mother Nature had told him to do it .
He knew that he ought to trust her .
So he climbed the tall tree .
It was a frightful distance down to the ground , and that other tree was so far away that it was foolish to even think of reaching it . ''
` Jump ! '
commanded Old Mother Nature .
`` Little Mr. Squirrel gulped very hard , trying to swallow his fear .
Then he jumped with all his might , and just as he had taught himself to do , spread himself out as flat as he could .
Just imagine how surprised he was and how tickled when he just coasted down on the air clear across the open place and landed as lightly as a feather on the foot of that distant tree !
You see , the skin between his legs when he spread them out had kept him from falling straight down .
Of course if he had n't jumped with all his might , as Old Mother Nature had told him to , even though he thought it would n't be of any use , he would n't have reached that other tree .
`` He was so delighted that he wanted to do it right over again , but he did n't forget his manners .
He first thanked Old Mother Nature .
`` She smiled .
` See that you keep out of danger , for that is why I have made you the greatest jumper in the Green Forest , ' said she .
`` Little Mr. Squirrel did .
People who , like Peter , did not use their eyes , thought that he could fly , and he was called the Flying Squirrel .
He was the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Timmy whom you both know . ''
`` And Timmy does n't really fly at all , does he ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk .
`` Certainly not .
He jumps and slides on the air , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` What did I tell you ? ''
cried Jimmy triumphantly to Peter .
`` Well , anyway , it 's next thing to flying .
I wish I could do it , '' replied Peter .
IX HOW MR. WEASEL WAS MADE AN OUTCAST IX HOW MR. WEASEL WAS MADE AN OUTCAST Chatterer the Red Squirrel peered down from the edge of an old nest built long ago in a big hemlock-tree in the Green Forest , and if you could have looked into Chatterer 's eyes , you would have seen there a great fear .
He looked this way ; he looked that way .
Little by little , the fear left him , and when at last he saw Peter Rabbit coming his way , he gave a little sigh of relief and ran down the tree .
Peter saw him and headed straight toward him to pass the time of day .
`` Peter , '' whispered Chatterer , as soon as Peter was near enough to hear , `` have you seen Shadow the Weasel ? ''
It was Peter 's turn to look frightened , and he hastily glanced this way and that way .
`` No , '' he replied .
`` Is he anywhere about here ? ''
`` I saw him pass about five minutes ago , but he seemed to be in a hurry , and I guess he has gone now , '' returned Chatterer , still whispering .
`` I hope so !
My goodness , I hope so ! ''
exclaimed Peter , still looking this way and that way uneasily .
`` I hate him ! ''
declared Chatterer fiercely .
`` So do I , '' replied Peter .
`` I guess everybody does .
It must be dreadful to be hated by everybody .
I do n't believe he has got a single friend in the wide , wide world , not even among his own relatives .
I wonder why it is he never tries to make any friends . ''
`` Here comes Jimmy Skunk .
Let 's ask him .
He ought to know , for he is Shadow 's cousin , '' said Chatterer .
Jimmy came ambling up in his usual lazy way , for you know he never hurries .
It seemed to Chatterer and Peter that he was slower than usual .
But he got there at last .
`` Why is it , Jimmy Skunk , that your cousin , Shadow the Weasel , never tries to make any friends ? ''
cried Chatterer , as soon as Jimmy was near enough .
`` I 've never asked him , but I suppose it 's because he does n't want them , '' replied Jimmy .
`` But why ? ''
asked Peter .
`` I guess it 's because he is an outcast , '' replied Jimmy .
`` What is an outcast , '' demanded Peter .
`` Why , somebody with whom nobody else will have anything to do , stupid , '' replied Jimmy .
`` I thought everybody knew that . ''
`` But how did it happen that he became an outcast in the first place ? ''
persisted Peter .
`` He 's always been an outcast , ever since he was born , and I suppose he is used to it , '' declared Jimmy .
`` His father was an outcast , and his grandfather , and his great-grandfathers way back to the days when the world was young . ''
`` Tell us about it .
Do tell us about it ! ''
begged Peter .
Jimmy smiled good-naturedly .
`` Well , seeing that I have n't anything else to do just now , I will .
Perhaps you fellows may learn something from the story , '' said he .
Then he settled himself comfortably with his back to an old stump and began .
-LSB- Illustration : `` One day Mr. Rabbit surprised Mr. Weasel making a meal of young mice . ''
Page 124 . -RSB-
`` When old King Bear ruled in the forest long , long ago , and the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfathers of all of us and of everybody else lived in peace and happiness with each other , slim , trim , spry Mr. Weasel lived with the rest .
He was small , just as Shadow is now , and he looked just the same as Shadow does now .
He was on the best of terms with all his neighbors , and no one had a word to say against him .
In fact , he was rather liked and had quite as many friends as anybody .
But all the time he had a mean disposition .
He hid it from his neighbors , but he had it just the same .
Now mean dispositions are easily hidden when everything is pleasant and there are no worries , and that is the way it was then .
No one suspected any one else of meanness , for with plenty to eat and nothing to worry about , there was no cause for meanness .
`` With his mean disposition , Mr. Weasel was also very crafty .
Being small and moving so swiftly , he was hard to keep track of .
You know how it is with Shadow -- now you see him , and now you do n't . ''
Chatterer and Peter nodded .
They knew that it is because of this that he is called Shadow .
`` Well , '' continued Jimmy , `` it did n't take him long to find that if he were careful , he could go where he pleased , and no one would be the wiser .
They say that he used to practise dodging out of sight when he saw any one coming , and after a while he got so that he could disappear right under the very noses of his neighbors .
Being so slim , he could go where any of his four-footed neighbors could , and it was n't long before he knew all about every hole and nook and corner anywhere around .
There were no secrets that he did n't find out , and all the time no one suspected him .
`` Of course hard times came to Mr. Weasel at last , just as to everybody else , but they did n't worry him much .
You see , he knew all about the secret hiding-places in which some of his neighbors had stored away food , so when he was hungry , all he had to do was to help himself .
So Mr. Weasel became a thief , and still no one suspected him .
Now one bad habit almost always leads to another .
Mr. Weasel developed a great fondness for eggs .
Our whole family has always had rather a weakness that way . ''
Jimmy grinned , for he knew that Peter and Chatterer knew that he himself never could pass a fresh egg when he found it .
`` One day he found a nest in which were four little baby birds instead of the eggs he had been expecting to find there and , having a mean disposition , he flew into a rage and killed those four little birds .
Yes , Sir , that 's what he did .
He found the taste of young birds very much to his liking , and he began to hunt for more .
Then he discovered a nest of young mice , and he found these quite as good as young birds .
Then came a great fear upon the littlest people , but not once did they suspect Mr. Weasel .
He was very crafty and went and came among them just as always .
They suspected only the larger and stronger people of the forest who , because food was getting very scarce , had begun to hunt the smaller people .
`` But you know wrongdoing is bound to be found out sooner or later .
One day Mr. Rabbit surprised Mr. Weasel making a meal of young mice , and of course he hurried to tell all his neighbors .
Then Mr. Weasel knew that it was no longer of use to pretend that he was what he was not , and he boldly joined the bigger animals in hunting the smaller ones .
It makes most people angry to be caught in wrongdoing and it was just that way with Mr. Weasel .
He flew into a great rage and vowed that he would kill Mr. Rabbit , and when he could n't catch Mr. Rabbit , he hunted others of his neighbors until there was no one , not even fierce Mr. Wolf or Mr. Panther or Mr. Lynx , of whom the littlest people were in such fear .
You see , they could hide from the big hunters , but they could n't hide from Mr. Weasel because he knew all their hiding-places , and he was so slim and small that wherever they could go , he could go .
`` Now the big people , like Mr. Wolf and Mr. Panther , killed only for food that they might live , and when they found Mr. Weasel killing more than he could eat , they would have nothing to do with him and even threatened to kill him if they caught him .
So pretty soon Mr. Weasel found that he had n't a friend in the world .
This made him more savage than ever , and he hunted and killed just for the pleasure of it .
He took pleasure in the fear which he read in the eyes of his neighbors when they saw him .
`` Old Mother Nature was terribly shocked when she discovered what was going on , but she found that she could do nothing with Mr. Weasel .
He was n't sorry for what he had done and he would n't promise to do better .
` Very well , ' said Old Mother Nature , ` from this time on you and your children and your children 's children forever and ever shall be outcasts among the people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , hated by all , little and big . '
And it has been so to this day .
Even I am not on speaking terms with Shadow , although he is my own cousin , '' concluded Jimmy Skunk .
Peter Rabbit shuddered .
`` Is n't it dreadful not to have a single friend ? ''
he exclaimed .
`` I would rather have to run for my life twenty times a day than to be hated and feared and without a single friend .
I would n't be an outcast for all the world . ''
`` There 's not the least bit of danger of that for you , Peter , '' laughed Jimmy Skunk .
X HOW THE EYES OF OLD MR. OWL BECAME FIXED X HOW THE EYES OF OLD MR. OWL BECAME FIXED Blacky the Crow had discovered Hooty the Owl dozing the bright day away in a thick hemlock-tree .
Blacky knew that the bright light hurt Hooty 's big eyes and half blinded him .
This meant that he could have no end of fun teasing Hooty , and that Hooty would have to sit still and take it all , because he could n't see well enough to fly away or to try to catch Blacky .
Now if the day had been dark , as it sometimes is on cloudy days , or if the dusk of evening had been settling over the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , matters would have been very different .
Blacky would have taken care , the very greatest care , not to let Hooty know that he was anywhere around .
But as it was , here was a splendid chance to spoil Hooty 's sleep and to see him grow very , very angry and do it without running any great risk .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
yelled Blacky at the top of his voice , and at once all his relatives came flocking over to join in the fun .
Dear me , dear me , such a racket as there was then !
They flew over his head , and they settled in the tree all around him , all yelling as hard as ever they could .
Everybody within hearing knew what it meant , and everybody who dared to hurried over to watch the fun .
Somehow most people seem to take pleasure in seeing some one else made uncomfortable , especially if it is some one of whom they stand in fear and who is for the time being helpless .
Most of the little meadow and forest people are very much afraid of Hooty the Owl as soon as it begins to grow dark , for that is when he can see best and does all his hunting .
So , though it was n't at all nice of them , they enjoyed seeing him tormented by Blacky and his relatives .
But all the time they took the greatest care to keep out of sight themselves .
Peter Rabbit was there .
So was Jumper the Hare and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Whitefoot the Wood Mouse and Striped Chipmunk and a lot more .
Of course , Sammy Jay was there , but Sammy did n't try to keep out of sight .
Oh , my , no !
He joined right in with the Crows , calling Hooty all sorts of bad names and flying about just out of reach in the most impudent way .
You see he knew just how helpless Hooty was .
Hooty was very , very angry .
He hissed , and he snapped his bill , and he told his tormentors what he would do to them if he caught them after dark .
And all the time he kept turning his head with its great , round , glaring , yellow eyes so as not to give his tormentors a chance to pull out any of his feathers , as the boldest of them tried to do .
Now Hooty can turn his head as no one else can .
He can turn it so that he looks straight back over his tail , so that his head looks as if it were put on the wrong way .
Then he can snap it around in the other direction so quickly that you can hardly see him do it , and sometimes it seems as if he turned his head clear around .
That interested Peter Rabbit immensely .
He could n't think of anything else .
He kept trying to do the same thing himself , but of course he could n't .
He could turn his head sideways , but that was all .
He puzzled over it all the rest of the day , and that night , when his cousin , Jumper the Hare , called at the dear Old Briar-patch , the first thing he did was to ask a question .
`` Cousin Jumper , do you know why it is that Hooty the Owl can turn his head way around , and nobody else can ? ''
`` Of course I know , '' replied Jumper .
`` I thought everybody knew that .
It 's because his eyes are fixed in their sockets , and he ca n't turn them .
So he turns his whole head in order to see in all directions .
The rest of us can roll our eyes , but Hooty ca n't . ''
Peter scratched his long left ear with his long right hindfoot , a way he has when he is thinking or is puzzled .
`` That 's funny , '' said he .
`` I wonder why his eyes are fixed . ''
`` Because his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather rolled his eyes too much , '' replied Jumper , yawning .
`` He saw too much .
It 's a bad thing to see too much . ''
`` Tell me about it .
Please do , Cousin Jumper , '' begged Peter .
Jumper looked up at the moon to see what time of night it was .
`` All right , '' said he , settling himself comfortably .
`` All the Owl family , way back to the very beginning , have had very big eyes .
Old Mr. Owl had them .
He could move them just as we can ours .
And because they were so big , and because he could roll them , there was very little going on that Mr. Owl did n't see .
It happened one day that Old Mother Nature took it into her wise old head to put the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest to a test .
She wanted to see just how many of them she could trust to obey her orders .
So she lined them all up in a row .
Then she made them turn so that their backs were to her . ''
` Now , ' said she , ` everybody is to keep eyes to the front .
I am going to be very busy back here for a few minutes , but not one of you is to peek .
I shall know if you do , and I shall see to it that you never forget it as long as you live . '
`` That sounded as if something dreadful might happen , so everybody sat perfectly still looking straight before them .
Some of them felt as if they would die of curiosity to know what Old Mother Nature was doing , but for a while no one thought of disobeying .
Old Mr. Rabbit just itched all over with curiosity .
It seemed to him that he just must turn his head .
But for once he managed to get the best of his curiosity and stared straight ahead .
`` Now Mr. Owl had tremendous great ears , just as Hooty has to-day .
You ca n't see them because the feathers cover them , but they are there just the same . ''
Peter nodded .
He knew all about those wonderful ears and how they heard the teeniest , weeniest noise when Hooty was flying at night .
`` Those , big ears , '' continued Jumper , `` heard every little sound that Old Mother Nature made , and they sounded queer to Mr. Owl .
` If I roll back my eyes without turning my head , I believe I can see what she is doing , and she wo n't be any the wiser , ' thought he .
So he rolled his eyes back and then looked straight ahead again .
What he had seen made him want to see more .
He tried it again .
Just imagine how he felt when he found that his eyes would n't roll .
He could n't move them a bit .
All he could do was to stare straight ahead .
It frightened him dreadfully , and he kept trying and trying to roll his eyes , but they were fixed fast .
He could see in only one direction , the way his head was turned .
`` When at last Old Mother Nature told all the little people that they might look , Mr. Owl did n't want to look .
He did n't want to face Old Mother Nature , for he knew perfectly well what had happened to his eyes .
He knew that Old Mother Nature had seen him roll them back , and that as a punishment she had fixed them so that he would always stare straight ahead .
He did n't say anything .
He was too ashamed to .
He flew away home the very first chance he got .
For a long time after that , Mr. Owl never could see behind him at all .
He could only turn his head part way , the same as most folks , and he could n't roll his eyes to see the rest of the way .
It made him dreadfully nervous and unhappy .
He felt all the time as if people were doing things behind his back .
But he did n't complain .
He was ashamed to do that .
`` Old Mother Nature was watching him all the time .
After a long , long while , she decided that he had been punished enough .
But she did n't want him to forget , so she kept his eyes fixed so that they would look straight ahead ; but she gave him the power to turn his head farther than any one else , so that he could look straight behind him without turning his body at all .
And ever since that time , all Owls have had fixed eyes , but have been able to turn their heads so as to make them look as if they were facing the wrong way . ''
`` Thank you , Cousin Jumper , '' cried Peter .
`` But there is one thing you forgot to tell .
What was it that Old Mother Nature was doing when Mr. Owl rolled his eyes to look back . ''
`` That , '' replied Jumper , `` Mr. Owl never told , and nobody else knew , so I ca n't tell you . ''
XI HOW IT HAPPENS JOHNNY CHUCK SLEEPS ALL WINTER XI HOW IT HAPPENS JOHNNY CHUCK SLEEPS ALL WINTER Peter Rabbit was bothered .
He was bothered in his mind , and when Peter is bothered in his mind , he loses his appetite .
It was so now .
He had been up in the Old Orchard and , as is his way , had stopped at Johnny Chuck 's for a bit of gossip .
As he sat there talking , it suddenly came over him that Johnny was looking unusually fat .
He said so .
Johnny yawned in a very sleepy way as he replied : `` One has to get fat in order to sleep comfortably all winter .
I 've got to get fatter than I am now before I turn in . ''
And with that , Johnny Chuck fell to eating as if his sides were falling in instead of threatening to burst , and Peter could get no more from him .
So he went home to think it over , and the more he thought , the more troubled he became .
How could anybody sleep all winter ?
And what good did just getting fat do ?
Johnny Chuck could n't eat his own fat , so what was the use of it ?
`` Must be it 's to keep him warm , '' thought Peter and brightened up .
But why was n't a good thick coat of fur just as good or even better ?
He did n't have any trouble keeping warm .
Neither did Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter or Reddy Fox .
No , it could n't be that Johnny Chuck put on all that fat just to keep warm .
Besides , he would spend the winter way down deep in the ground , and there was no excuse for being cold there .
`` I could n't sleep all winter if I wanted to , and I would n't if I could , for there is too much fun to miss , '' muttered Peter , as he started for the Smiling Pool in search of Grandfather Frog .
He found him sitting on his big lily-pad , but somehow Grandfather Frog did n't look as chipper and smart as usual .
`` He certainly is growing old , '' thought Peter .
`` He is n't as spry as he used to be .
Seems as if he had grown old in the last two or three weeks .
Too bad , too bad . ''
Aloud , Peter said : `` Why , Grandfather Frog , how well you are looking !
You are enough to make us young fellows envious . ''
Grandfather Frog looked at Peter sharply .
Perhaps he read the truth in Peter 's eyes .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he .
`` Be honest , Peter .
Be honest .
Do n't try to flatter , because it is a bad habit to get into .
I know how I look .
I look old and tired .
Now is n't that so ? ''
Peter looked a little shamefaced .
He did n't know just what to say , so he said nothing and just nodded his head .
`` That 's better , '' said Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Always tell the truth .
The fact is I am tired .
I am so tired that I 'm going to sleep for the winter , and I 'm going to do it this very day . ''
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' -LRB- Peter had found his tongue -RRB- , `` please tell me something before you go .
I can understand how you may want to sleep all winter because you have no nice fur coat to keep you warm , but why does Johnny Chuck do it , and how does he do it ?
Why does n't he starve to death ? ''
Grandfather Frog had to smile at the eager curiosity in Peter 's voice .
`` I see you are just as full of questions as ever , Peter , '' said he .
`` I suppose I may as well tell you one more story , because it will be a long time before you will get another from me .
Johnny Chuck sleeps all winter because he is sensible , and he is sensible because it runs in the family to be sensible .
His great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather was sensible .
It 's a very good thing to have good sound common sense run in the family , Peter . ''
Once more Peter nodded his head .
Jerry Muskrat , who was sitting on the Big Rock , listening , winked at Peter , and Peter winked back .
Then he made himself comfortable and prepared not to miss a word of Grandfather Frog 's story .
`` You must know , Peter , that a long time ago when the world was young , there was a time when there was no winter , '' began Grandfather Frog .
`` That was before the hard times of which I have told you before .
Everybody had plenty to eat , and everybody was on the best of terms with all his neighbors .
Then came the hard times , and the beginning of the hard times was the coming of rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost .
Their coming made the first winter .
It was n't a very long or a very hard winter , but it was long enough and hard enough to make a great deal of discomfort , particularly for those little people who lived altogether on tender young green plants .
Yes , Sir , it certainly was hard on them .
Some of them nearly starved to death that first winter , short as it was .
Old Mr. Chuck , who , of course , was n't old then , was one of them .
By the time the tender , young , green things began to grow again , he was just a shadow of what he used to be .
He was so thin that sometimes he used to listen to see if he could n't hear his bones rattle inside his skin .
`` Of course he could n't , but he was quite sure that when the wind blew , it went right through him .
At last warm weather returned , just as it does now every summer , and once more there was plenty to eat .
Some of the little people seemed to forget all about the hard times of the cold weather , but not Mr. Chuck .
He had been too cold and too hungry to ever forget .
Of course , with plenty to eat , he soon grew fat and comfortable again , but all the time he kept thinking about the terrible visit of rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost and wondering if they would come again .
He talked about it with his neighbors but most of them laughed and told him that he was borrowing trouble , and that they did n't believe that Brother North Wind and Jack Frost ever would come again .
`` So after a while Mr. Chuck kept his thoughts to himself and went about his business as usual .
But all the time he was turning over and over in his mind the possibility of another period of cold and starvation and trying to think of some way to prepare for it .
He did n't once think of going to Old Mother Nature and begging her to take care of him , for he was very independent , was Mr. Chuck , and believed that those are best helped who help themselves .
So he kept studying and studying how he could live through another cold spell , if it should come . '' '
I have n't got as thick a fur coat as Mr. Mink or Mr. Otter or Mr. Squirrel or some others , and I ca n't run around as fast as they can , so of course I ca n't keep as warm , ' said he to himself , as he sat taking a sun-bath one day . '
I must find some other way of keeping warm .
Now I do n't believe the cold can get very deep down in the ground , so if I build me a house way down deep in the ground , it always will be comfortable .
Anyway , it never will be very cold .
I believe that is a good idea .
I 'll try it at once . '
`` So without wasting any time , Mr. Chuck began to dig .
He dug and he dug and he dug .
When his neighbors grew curious and asked questions , he smiled good-naturedly and said that he was trying an experiment .
When he had made a long hall which went down so deep that he was quite sure that Jack Frost could not get down there , he made a bedroom and put in it a bed of soft grass .
When it was finished , he was so pleased with it that he retired to it every night as soon as the sun went down and did n't come out again until morning . ''
` Anyway , I wo n't freeze to death , ' said he .
Then he sighed as he remembered how hungry , how terribly hungry he had been .
` Now if only I can think of some way to get food enough to carry me through , I 'll be all right . '
`` At first he thought of storing up food , but when he tried that , he soon found that the tender green things on which he lived would n't keep .
They shriveled and dried , so that he could n't eat them at all .
He was still trying to think of some plan when Old Mother Nature sent warning that rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost were coming again .
Mr. Chuck 's heart sank .
He thought of how soon all the tender green things would disappear .
Right then an idea was born in Mr. Chuck 's head .
He would eat all he could while he could , and then he would go down into his bedroom and sleep just as long as he could !
`` So day after day he spent stuffing himself , and his neighbors called him Mr. Greedy .
But he did n't mind that .
He kept right on eating , and of course he grew fatter and fatter , so that at last he was so fat he could hardly get about .
The days grew cooler and cooler , and then Mr. Chuck noticed that because he was so fat , he did n't feel the cold as he had before .
There came a morning at last when Mr. Chuck stuck his nose out to find Jack Frost waiting to pinch it .
All the tender green things were black and dead .
Back to his bed scrambled Mr. Chuck and curled up to sleep just as long as he could .
He made up his mind that he would n't worry until he had to .
He had done his best , and that was all he could do .
`` When Old Mother Nature came to see how the little people were faring , she missed Mr. Chuck .
She asked his neighbors what had become of him , but no one knew .
At length she came to his house and looking inside found him fast asleep .
She saw right away what he had done and how fat he had grown .
She knew without being told what it all meant , and the idea amused her .
Instead of wakening him , as she had at first intended to do , she touched Mr. Chuck and put him into a deeper sleep , saying : '' ` You shall sleep , Mr. Chuck , Through the time of frost and snow .
For your courage and your pluck You shall no discomfort know . '
`` And so Mr. Chuck slept on until the tender young green things began once more to grow .
The cold could not reach him , and the fat he had stored under his skin took the place of food .
When he awoke in the spring , he knew nothing of the hard times his neighbors were talking about .
And ever since then the Chuck family has slept through the winter , because it is the most comfortable and sensible thing to do .
I know , because I have done the same thing for years .
Good-by , Peter Rabbit !
No more stories until spring . ''
Before Peter could say a word , there was a splash in the Smiling Pool , and Grandfather Frog was nowhere to be seen .
`` I -- I do n't see how they do it , '' said Peter , shaking his head in a puzzled way as he slowly hopped towards the dear Old Briar-patch .
XII HOW OLD MR. OTTER LEARNED TO SLIDE XII HOW OLD MR. OTTER LEARNED TO SLIDE Little Joe Otter was having the jolliest kind of a time .
Little Joe Otter is a jolly little chap , anyway , and just now he was extra happy .
You see , he had a brand new slippery-slide .
Yes , Sir , Little Joe had just built a new slippery-slide down the steepest part of the bank into the Smiling Pool .
It was longer and smoother than his old slippery-slide , and it seemed to Little Joe as if he could slide and slide all day long .
Of course he enjoyed it more because he had built it himself .
He would stretch out full length at the top of the slippery-slide , give a kick to start himself , shoot down the slippery-slide , disappear headfirst with a great splash into the Smiling Pool , and then climb up the bank and do it all over again .
Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck sat watching him from the bank on the other side of the Smiling Pool .
Right down below them , sitting on his big green lily-pad , was Grandfather Frog , and there was a sparkle in his big , goggly eyes and his great mouth was stretched in a broad grin as he watched Little Joe Otter .
He even let a foolish green fly brush the tip of his nose and did n't snap at it .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog to no one in particular .
`` That reminds me of the days when I was young and the greatest diver in the Smiling Pool .
My goodness , it makes me feel young just to watch Little Joe shoot down that slippery-slide .
If I were n't so old , I 'd try it myself .
Wheee ! ''
With , that , Grandfather Frog suddenly jumped .
It was a great , long , beautiful jump , and with his long hind legs straight out behind him , Grandfather Frog disappeared in the Smiling Pool so neatly that he made hardly a splash at all , only a whole lot of rings on the surface of the water that grew bigger and bigger until they met the rings made by Little Joe Otter and then became all mixed up .
Half a minute later Grandfather Frog 's head bobbed up out of the water , and for the first time he saw Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit .
`` Come on in ; the water 's fine ! ''
he cried , and rolled one big , goggly eye up at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun and winked it in the most comical way , for he knew , and he knew that Mr. Sun knew , just how Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit dislike the water .
`` No , thanks , '' replied Peter , but there was a wistful look in his big eyes as he watched Little Joe Otter splash into the Smiling Pool .
Little Joe was having such a good time !
Peter actually was wishing that he did like the water .
Grandfather Frog climbed out on his big green lily-pad .
He settled himself comfortably so as to face Johnny Chuck and Peter and at the same time watch Little Joe out of the corner of one big , goggly eye .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he , as once more Little Joe splashed into the Smiling Pool .
`` Did you ever hear about Little Joe 's family secret ? ''
he asked in his deep gruff voice .
`` No , '' cried Peter Rabbit .
`` Do tell us about it !
I just love secrets . ''
There was a great deal of eagerness in Peter 's voice , and it made Grandfather Frog smile .
`` Is that the reason you never can keep them ? ''
he asked .
Peter looked a wee bit foolish , but he kept still and waited patiently .
After what seemed a long , long time , Grandfather Frog cleared his throat two or three times , and this is the story he told Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit : `` Once upon a time when the world was young , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Little Joe Otter got into a peck of trouble .
Yes , Sir , he certainly did get into a peck of trouble .
You see , it was winter , and everything was covered with snow , so that food was hard to get .
Most of the little forest and meadow people found little to eat , and it took a great deal of hunting to find that little .
Only those who , like old Mr. Squirrel , had been wise enough to lay up a store of food when there was plenty , and two or three others like Mr. Mink and Mr. Otter , who could go fishing in the spring-holes which had not frozen over , had full stomachs .
`` Now an empty stomach almost always makes a short temper .
It is hard , very hard indeed to be hungry and good-natured at the same time .
So as most of the people of the Green Forest were hungry all the time , they were also short-tempered all the time .
Mr. Otter knew this .
When any of them came prowling around the spring-hole where he was fishing , he would tease them by letting them see how fat he was .
Sometimes he would bring up a fine fish and eat it right before them without offering to share so much as a mouthful .
He had done this several times to Mr. Lynx , and though Mr. Lynx had begged and begged for just a bite , Mr. Otter had refused the teeniest , weeniest bit and had even made fun of Mr. Lynx for not being smart enough to get sufficient to eat .
`` Now it happened that one fine morning Mr. Otter took it into his head to take a walk in the Green Forest .
It was a beautiful morning , and Mr. Otter went farther than he intended .
He was just trying to make up his mind whether to turn back or go just a little farther , when he heard stealthy footsteps behind him .
He looked over his shoulder , and what he saw helped him to make up his mind in a hurry .
There , creeping over the frozen snow , was Mr. Lynx , and the sides of Mr. Lynx were very thin , and the eyes of Mr. Lynx looked very hungry and fierce , and the claws of Mr. Lynx were very long and strong and cruel looking .
Mr. Otter made up his mind right away that the cold , black water of that open spring-hole was the only place for him , and he started for it without even passing the time of day with Mr. Lynx .
`` Now Mr. Otter 's legs were very short , just as Little Joe 's are , but it was surprising how fast he got over the snow that beautiful morning .
When he came to the top of a little hill , he would slide down , because he found that he could go faster that way .
But in spite of all he could do , Mr. Lynx traveled faster , coming with great jumps and snarling and spitting with every jump .
Mr. Otter was almost out of breath when he reached the high bank just above the open spring-hole .
It was very steep , very steep indeed .
Mr. Otter threw a hasty glance over his shoulder .
Mr. Lynx was so near that in one more jump he would catch him .
There was n't time to run around to the place where the bank was low .
Mr. Otter threw himself flat , gave a frantic kick with his hind legs , shut his eyes , and shot down , down , down the slippery bank so fast that he lost what little breath he had left .
Then he landed with a great splash in the cold , black water and was safe , for Mr. Lynx was afraid of the water .
He stopped right on the very edge of the steep bank , where he growled and screeched and told Mr. Otter what dreadful things he would do to him if ever he caught him .
`` Now in spite of his dreadful fright , Mr. Otter had enjoyed that exciting slide down the steep bank .
He got to thinking about it after Mr. Lynx had slunk away into the Green Forest , and when he was rested and could breathe comfortably again , he made up his mind to try it once more .
So he climbed out where the bank was low and ran around to the steep place and once more slid down into the water .
It was great fun , the greatest fun Mr. Otter ever had had .
He did it again and again .
In fact , he kept doing it all the rest of that day .
And he found that the more he slid , the smoother and more slippery became the slippery-slide , for the water dripped from his brown coat and froze on the slide .
`` After that , as long as the snow lasted , Mr. Otter spent all his time , between eating and sleeping , sliding down his slippery-slide .
He learned just how to hold his legs so that they would not be hurt .
When gentle Sister South Wind came in the spring and took away all the snow , Mr. Otter hardly knew what to do with himself , until one day a bright idea popped into his head and made him laugh aloud .
Why not make a slippery-slide of mud and clay ?
Right away he tried it .
It was n't as good as the snow slide , but by trying and trying , he found a way to make it better than at first .
After that Mr. Otter was perfectly happy , for summer and winter he had a slippery-slide .
He taught his children , and they taught their children how to make slippery-slides , and ever since that long-ago day when the world was young , the making of slippery-slides has been the family secret of the Otters . ''
`` And it 's the best secret in the world , '' said Little Joe Otter , swimming up behind Grandfather Frog just then .
`` I wish -- I wish I had a slippery-slide , '' said Peter Rabbit wistfully .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Be content with the blessings you have got , Peter Rabbit .
Be content with the blessings you have got .
No good comes of wishing for things which it never was meant that you should have .
It is a bad habit and it makes discontent . ''
XIII HOW DRUMMER THE WOODPECKER CAME BY HIS RED CAP XIII HOW DRUMMER THE WOODPECKER CAME BY HIS RED CAP Drummer the Woodpecker was beating his long roll on a hollow tree in the Green Forest .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Drummer thought it the most beautiful sound in the world .
After each long roll he would stop and listen for a reply .
You see , sometimes one of his family in another part of the Green Forest , or over in the Old Orchard , would hear him drumming and would hasten to find a hollow tree himself and drum too .
Then they would drum back and forth to each other for the longest time , until all the other little people would scold because of the racket and would wish they could stop their ears .
But it was music , real music to Drummer and all the members of his family , and Drummer never was happier than when beating his long roll as he was doing now .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Suddenly Drummer heard a scratching sound inside the hollow tree .
Once more he beat the long roll and the scratching sound grew louder .
Then he heard a voice just a little way above him .
`` Do Ah hear some one knocking ? ''
asked the voice .
Drummer looked up .
There was Unc ' Billy Possum 's sharp little face sticking out of his doorway , and Unc ' Billy looked very sleepy and very cross and at the same time as if he were trying very hard to be polite and pleasant .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy !
Is this your house ?
I did n't know it when I began to drum .
I was n't knocking ; I was drumming .
I just love to drum , '' replied Drummer .
`` Ah reckons yo ' do by the noise yo ' have been making , but Ah do n't like being inside the drum .
Ah 'm feelin ' powerful bad in the haid just now , Brer Drummer , and Ah cert ` nly will take it kindly if yo ' will find another drum , '' said Unc ' Billy , holding his head in both hands as if he had a terrible headache .
Drummer looked disappointed and a little bit hurt , but he is one of the best-natured little people in the Green Forest and always willing to be obliging .
`` I 'm sorry if I have disturbed you , Unc ' Billy , '' he replied promptly .
`` Of course I wo n't drum here any longer , if you do n't like it .
I 'll look for another hollow tree , though I do n't believe I can find another as good .
It is one of the best sounding trees I have ever drummed on .
It 's simply beautiful ! ''
There was a great deal of regret in his voice , as if it were the hardest work to give up that tree .
`` Ah 'll tell yo ' where there 's another just as good , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
`` Yo ' see the top of that ol' chestnut-tree way down there in the holler ?
Well , yo ' try that .
Ah 'm sure yo ' will like it . ''
Drummer thanked Unc ' Billy politely and bobbed his red-capped head as he spread his wings and started in the direction of the big chestnut-tree .
Unc ' Billy grinned as he watched him .
Then he slowly and solemnly winked one eye at Peter Rabbit , who had just come along .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Ah done just sent Brer Drummer down to the big chestnut-tree to drum , '' Unc ' Billy replied , winking again .
`` Why , that 's Bobby Coon 's house ! ''
cried Peter , and then he saw the joke and began to grin too .
In a few minutes they heard Drummer 's long roll .
Then again and again .
The third time it broke off right in the middle , and right away a terrible fuss started down at the big chestnut-tree .
They could hear Drummer 's voice , and it sounded very angry .
`` Ah reckon Brer Coon was waked up and lost his temper , '' chuckled Unc ' Billy .
`` It 's a bad habit to lose one 's temper .
Yes , Sah , it cert ` nly is a bad habit .
Ah reckons Ah better be turning in fo ' another nap , Brer Rabbit . ''
With that Unc ' Billy disappeared , still chuckling .
Hardly was he out of sight when Peter saw Drummer heading that way , and Drummer looked very much put out about something .
He just nodded to Peter and flew straight to Unc ' Billy 's tree .
Then he began to drum .
How he did drum !
His red-capped head flew back and forth as Peter never had seen it fly before .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Drummer hardly paused for breath .
There was too much noise for Peter , and he kicked up his heels and started for the Smiling Pool , and all the way there he laughed .
`` I hope Unc ' Billy is enjoying a good nap , '' he chuckled .
`` Drummer certainly has turned the joke back on Unc ' Billy this time , and I guess it serves him right . ''
He was still laughing when he reached the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog watched him until he began to smile too .
You know laughter is catching .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
laughed Peter and held his sides .
`` What is the joke ? ''
demanded Grandfather Frog in his deepest voice .
When Peter could get his breath , he told Grandfather Frog all about the joke on Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Listen ! ''
said Peter at the end of the story .
They both listened .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
The long roll of Drummer the Woodpecker could be heard clear down to the Smiling Pool , and Peter and Grandfather Frog knew by the sound that it still came from Unc ' Billy 's house .
`` Chug-a-rum !
That reminds me , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Did you ever hear how Drummer came by his red cap ? ''
`` No , '' replied Peter .
`` How did he ? ''
There was great eagerness in Peter 's voice .
`` Well , '' said Grandfather Frog , settling himself in a way that Peter knew meant a story , `` of course Drummer over there came by his red cap because it was handed down in the family , but of course there 's a reason . ''
`` Of course , '' said Peter , quite as if he knew all about it .
Grandfather Frog rolled his great , goggly eyes and looked at Peter suspiciously , but Peter looked so innocent and eager that he went on with his story .
`` Of course , it all happened way back in the days when the world was young . ''
`` Of course ! ''
said Peter .
This time Grandfather Frog took no notice .
`` Drummer 's grandfather a thousand times removed was just a plain little black and white bird without the least bit of bright color on him .
He did n't have any sweeter voice than Drummer has to-day .
Altogether he seemed to his neighbors a no-account little fellow , and they did n't have much to do with him .
So Mr. Woodpecker lived pretty much alone .
In fact , he lived alone so much that when he found a hollow tree he used to pound on it just to make a noise and keep from being lonesome , and that is how he learned to drum .
You see , he had n't any voice for singing , and so he got in the habit of drumming to keep his spirits up .
`` Now all the time , right down in his heart , Mr. Woodpecker envied the birds who had handsome coats .
He used to wish and wish that he had something bright , if it were no more than a pretty necktie .
But he never said anything about it , and no one suspected it but Old Mother Nature , and Mr. Woodpecker did n't know that she knew it .
Whenever he got to wishing too much , he would try to forget it by hunting for worms that bored into the trees of the Green Forest and which other birds could not get because they did not have the stout bill and the long tongue Mr. Woodpecker possessed .
`` Now it happened that while Old Mother Nature was busy elsewhere , a great number of worms settled in the Green Forest and began to bore into the trees , so that after a while many trees grew sickly and then died .
None of the other little people seemed to notice it , or if they did , they said it was none of their business and that Old Mother Nature ought to look out for such things .
They shrugged their shoulders and went on playing and having a good time .
But Mr. Woodpecker was worried .
He loved the Green Forest dearly , and he began to fear that if something was n't done , there would n't be any Green Forest .
He said as much to some of his neighbors , but they only laughed at him .
The more he thought about it , the more Mr. Woodpecker worried . ''
` Something must be done , ' said he to himself .
` Yes , Sir , something must be done .
If Old Mother Nature does n't come to attend to things pretty soon , it will be too late . '
Then he made up his mind that he would do what he could .
From early morning until night he hunted worms and dug them out of the trees .
He would start at the bottom of a tree and work up , going all over it until he was sure that there was n't another worm left .
Then he would fly to the next tree .
He pounded with his bill until his neck ached .
He did n't even take time to drum .
His neighbors laughed at him at first , but he kept right on working , working , working every hour of the day .
`` At last Old Mother Nature appeared very unexpectedly .
She went all through the Green Forest , and her sharp eyes saw all that Mr. Woodpecker had done .
She did n't say a word to him , but she called all the little people of the Green Forest before her , and when they were all gathered around , she sent for Mr. Woodpecker .
She made him sit up on a dead limb of a tall chestnut-tree where all could see him .
Then she told just what he had done , and how he had saved the Green Forest , and how great a debt the other little people owed to him . ''
` And now that you may never forget it , ' she concluded , ' I herewith make Mr. Woodpecker the policeman of the trees , and this is his reward to be worn by him and his children forever and ever . '
With that she called Mr. Woodpecker down before her and put on his head a beautiful red cap , for she knew how in his heart he had longed to wear something bright .
Mr. Woodpecker thanked Old Mother Nature as best he could and then slipped away where he could be alone with his happiness .
All the rest of the day the other little people heard him drumming off by himself in the Green Forest and smiled , for they knew that that was the way he was expressing his joy , having no voice to sing .
`` And that , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , `` is how Drummer whom you know came by his red cap . ''
`` Is n't it splendid ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit , and then he and Grandfather Frog both smiled as they heard a long rat-a-tat-tat-tat roll out from the Green Forest .
XIV HOW OLD MR. TREE TOAD FOUND OUT HOW TO CLIMB XIV HOW OLD MR. TREE TOAD FOUND OUT HOW TO CLIMB Of all the puzzling things over which Peter Rabbit had sat and thought and wondered until the brains in that funny little head of his were topsy-turvy , none was more puzzling than the fact that Sticky-toes the Tree Toad could climb .
Often Peter had watched him climb up the trunk of a tree or jump from one branch to another and then thought of Old Mr. Toad , own cousin to Sticky-toes , and of Grandfather Frog , another own cousin , who could n't climb at all , and wondered how it had all come about that one cousin could climb and be just as much at home in the trees as the birds , while the others could n't climb at all .
He had it on his mind one morning when he met Old Mr. Toad solemnly hopping down the Lone Little Path .
Right then and there Peter resolved to ask Old Mr. Toad .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad , '' said Peter politely .
`` Have you a few minutes to spare ? ''
Old Mr. Toad hopped into the shade of a big mullein leaf .
`` I guess so , if it is anything important , '' said he .
`` Phew !
Hot , is n't it ?
I simply ca n't stand the sun .
Now what is that you 've got on your mind , Peter ? ''
Peter hesitated a minute , for he was n't at all sure that Old Mr. Toad would think the matter sufficiently important for him to spend his time in story telling .
Then he blurted out the whole matter and how he had puzzled and puzzled why Sticky-toes was able to climb when none of the rest of the Toad family could .
Old Mr. Toad chuckled .
`` Looking for a story as usual , I see , '' said he .
`` You ought to go to Grandfather Frog for this one , because Sticky-toes is really a Frog and not a Toad .
But we are all cousins , and I do n't mind telling you about Sticky-toes , or rather about his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , who was the first of the family ever to climb a tree .
You see , it is all in the family , and I am very proud of my family , which is one of the very oldest . ''
Peter settled himself comfortably and prepared to listen .
Old Mr. Toad snapped up a foolish spider who came too near and then cleared his throat .
`` Once on a time , '' he began , `` when Old Mother Nature made the first land and the first trees and plants , the Toads and the Frogs were the first to leave the water to see what dry land was like .
The Toads , being bolder than the Frogs , went all over the new land while the Frogs kept within jumping distance of the water , just as Grandfather Frog does to this day .
There was one Frog , however , who , seeing how bravely and boldly the Toads went forth to see all that was to be seen in the new land , made up his mind that he too would see the Great World .
He was the smallest of the Frogs , and his friends and relatives warned him not to go , saying that he would come to no good end .
`` But he would n't listen to their dismal croakings and hurried after the Toads .
Being able to make longer jumps than they could , he soon caught up with them , and they all journeyed on together .
The Toads were so pleased that one of their cousins was brave enough to join them that they made him very welcome and treated him as one of themselves , so that they soon got to thinking of him as a Toad and not as a Frog at all .
`` Now the Toads soon found that Old Mother Nature was having a hard time to make plants grow , because as fast as they came up , they were eaten by insects .
You see , she had so many things to attend to in those days when the world was young that she had to leave a great many things to take care of themselves and get along the best they could , and it was this way with the plants .
It was then that the great idea came to my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , and he called all the Toads together and proposed that they help Old Mother Nature by catching the bugs and worms that were destroying the plants .
`` Little Mr. Frog , who had been adopted by the Toads , was one of the most eager to help , and he was busy every minute .
After a while the Toads had caught most of the bugs and worms on the ground and within reach , and the plants began to grow .
But when the plants got above the reach of the Toads , the bugs and the worms were safe once more and began to multiply so that the plants suffered and stopped growing .
You see , there were no birds in those days to help .
One day little Mr. Frog sat under a bush on which most of the leaves had been eaten .
He saw a worm eating a leaf on one of the lower branches .
It was quite a way above his head .
It worried him .
He kept his eyes on that worm and thought and thought until his head ached .
At last he got an idea . '
I wonder , ' thought he , ` if I jump as hard as I can , if I can catch that fellow .
I 'll try it .
It will do no harm to try . '
`` So he drew his long legs close under him , and then he jumped up with all his might .
He did n't quite reach the bug , but he got his hands on the branch and by pulling and struggling , he managed to get up on it .
It was a very uncertain seat , but he hung on and crept along until he could dart his tongue out and catch that worm .
Then he saw another , and in trying to catch that one he lost his balance and fell to the ground with a thump .
It quite knocked the wind from his body .
`` That night little Mr. Frog studied and studied , trying to think of some way by which he could get up in the bushes and trees and clear them of bugs and worms .
` If only I could hold on once I get up there , I would be all right , ' thought he .
` Then I could leave the bugs and worms on the ground for my cousins the Toads to look after , while I look after those beyond their reach . '
`` The next day and the next , and for many days thereafter , little Mr. Frog kept jumping for bugs on the bushes .
He got many thumps and bumps , but he did n't mind these , for little by little he was learning how to hang on to the branches once he got up in them .
Then one day , just by accident , he put one hand against the trunk of a young pine-tree , and when he started to take it away , he found it stuck fast .
He had to pull to get it free .
Like a flash an idea popped into his head .
He rubbed a little of the pitch , for that was what had made his hand stick , on both hands , and then he started to climb a tree .
As long as the pitch lasted , he could climb .
`` Little Mr. Frog was tickled to death , with his discovery , but he did n't say a word to any one about it .
Every day he rubbed pitch on his hands and then climbed about in the bushes and low trees , ridding them of bugs and worms .
Of course , it was n't very pleasant to have that pitch on his hands , because dirt and all sorts of things which he happened to touch stuck to them , but he made the best of a bad matter and washed them carefully when he was through with his day 's work .
`` Quite unexpectedly Old Mother Nature returned to see how the trees and the plants were getting on .
You see , she was worried about them .
When she found what the Toads had been doing , she was mightily pleased .
Then she noticed that some of the bushes and low trees had very few leaves left , while others looked thrifty and strong . ''
` That 's queer , ' said Old Mother Nature to herself and went over to examine a bush .
Hanging on to a branch for dear life she saw a queer little fellow who was so busy that he did n't see her at all .
It was little Mr. Frog .
He was catching bugs as fast as he could .
Old Mother Nature wrinkled up her brows .
` Now however did he learn to climb ? '
thought she .
Then she hid where she could watch .
By and by she saw little Mr. Frog tumble out of the bush , because , you know , the pitch on his hands had worn off .
He hurried over to a pine-tree and rubbed more pitch on and then jumped up into the bush and went to work again .
`` You can guess how astonished Old Mother Nature was when she saw this performance .
And she was pleased .
Oh , yes , indeed , Old Mother Nature was wonderfully pleased .
She was pleased because little Mr. Frog was trying so hard to help her , and she was pleased because he had been so smart in finding a way to climb .
When she had laughed until she could laugh no more at the way little Mr. Frog had managed to stick to his work , she took him down very gently and wiped the pitch from his hands .
Then she gently pinched the end of each finger and each toe so that they ended in little round discs instead of being pointed as before , and in each little disc was a clean , sticky substance .
Then she tossed him up in a tree , and when he touched a branch , he found that he could hold on without the least danger of falling . '' '
I appoint you caretaker of my trees , ' said Old Mother Nature , and from that day on little Mr. Frog lived in the trees , as did his children and his children 's children , even as Sticky-toes does to-day .
And though he was really a Frog , he was called the Tree Toad , and the Toads have always been proud to have him so called .
And this is the end of the story , '' concluded Old Mr. Toad .
XV HOW OLD MR. HERON LEARNED PATIENCE XV HOW OLD MR. HERON LEARNED PATIENCE Whenever in the spring or summer Peter Rabbit visited the Smiling Pool or the Laughing Brook , he was pretty sure to run across Longlegs the Heron .
The first tune Peter saw him , he thought that never in all his life had he seen such a homely fellow .
Longlegs was standing with his feet in the water and his head drawn back on his shoulders so that he did n't seem to have any neck at all .
Peter sat and stared at him most impolitely .
He knew that he was impolite , but for the life of him he could n't help staring .
`` He 's all legs , '' thought Peter .
`` Old Mother Nature must have been in a hurry when she made his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather way back when the world was young and forgot to give him a neck .
I wonder why he does n't move . ''
But Longlegs did n't move .
Peter stared as long as his patience held out .
Then he gave up and went on to see what else he could find .
But in a little while Peter was back again at the place where he had seen Longlegs .
He did n't really expect to find him there , but he did .
So far as Peter could see , Longlegs had n't moved .
`` Must be asleep , '' thought Peter , and after watching for a few minutes , went away again .
Half an hour later Peter was once more back .
There stood Longlegs just as before .
`` Now I know he is asleep , '' muttered Peter .
No sooner were the words out of his mouth than something happened , something so sudden and surprising that Peter lost his balance and nearly fell over backward .
The long bill which Peter had seen sticking forth from between those humped-up shoulders darted out and down into the water like a flash .
Behind that bill was the longest neck Peter ever had seen !
It was so long that Peter blinked to be perfectly sure that his eyes had not been playing him a trick .
But they had n't , for Longlegs was gulping down a little fish he had just caught , and when at last it was down , he stretched his neck up very straight while he looked this way and that way , and Peter just gasped .
`` I thought he was all legs , but instead of that he 's all neck , '' muttered Peter .
Then Longlegs slowly drew his head down , and it seemed to Peter as if he must somehow wind that long neck up inside his body to get it so completely out of the way .
In a minute Longlegs was standing just as before , with seemingly no neck at all .
Peter watched until he grew tired , but Longlegs did n't move again .
After that Peter went every chance he had to watch Longlegs , but he never had patience to watch long enough to see Longlegs catch another fish .
He spoke of it one day to Grandfather Frog .
At the mere mention of Longlegs , Grandfather Frog sat up and took notice .
`` Where did you see him ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog , and Peter thought his voice sounded anxious .
`` Down the Laughing Brook , '' replied Peter .
`` Why ? ''
`` Oh , nothing , '' said Grandfather Frog , trying to make his voice sound as if he were n't interested .
`` I just wondered where the long-legged nuisance might be . ''
`` He 's the laziest fellow I ever saw , '' declared Peter .
`` He just stands doing nothing all day . ''
`` Huh ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog .
`` If your family had suffered from him as much as mine has , you would say that he was altogether too busy .
Ask the Trout what they think , or the Minnow family . ''
`` Oh , '' said Peter , `` you mean that when he stands still that way he is fishing . ''
Grandfather Frog nodded .
`` Well , '' said Peter , `` all I can say is that he is the most patient fellow I ever saw .
I did n't suppose there was such patience . ''
`` He comes rightly by it , '' returned Grandfather Frog .
`` He gets it from his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , who lived when the world was young .
He learned it then . ''
`` How ? ''
demanded Peter , eager for a story .
Grandfather Frog 's eyes took on a far-away look , as if he were seeing into that long-ago past .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he began .
`` It always seemed to old Mr. Heron as if Old Mother Nature must have made him last of all the birds and was in such a hurry that she did n't care how he looked .
His legs were so long and his neck was so long that all his neighbors laughed at him and made fun of him .
He was just as awkward as he looked .
His long legs were in his way .
He did n't know what to do with his long neck .
When he tried to run , everybody shouted with laughter .
When he tried to fly , he stretched his long neck out , and then he could n't keep his balance and just flopped about , while all his neighbors laughed harder than ever .
Poor Mr. Heron was ashamed of himself , actually ashamed of himself .
He quite overlooked the fact that Old Mother Nature had given him a really beautiful coat of feathers .
Some of those who laughed at him would have given anything to have possessed such a beautiful coat .
But Mr. Heron did n't know this .
He could n't bear to be laughed at , wherein he was very like most people .
`` So he tried his best to keep out of sight as much as possible .
Now in those days , as at present , the rushes grew tall beside the Smiling Pool , and among them Mr. Heron found a hiding-place .
Because his legs were long , he could wade out in the water and keep quite out of sight of those who lived on the land .
So he found a use for his long legs and was glad that they were long .
At first he used to go ashore to hunt for food .
One day as he was wading ashore , he surprised a school of little fish and managed to catch one .
It tasted so good that he wanted more , and every day he went fishing .
Whenever he saw little fish swimming where the water was shallow , he would rush in among them and do his best to catch one .
Sometimes he did , but more often he did n't .
You see , he was so clumsy and awkward that he made a great splashing , and the fish would hear him coming and get away .
`` One day after he had tried and tried without catching even one , he stopped just at the edge of the rushes to rest .
His long neck ached , and to rest it he laid it back on his shoulders .
For a long time he stood there , resting .
The water around his feet was cool and comforting .
He was very comfortable but for one thing , -- he was hungry .
He was just making up his mind to go on and hunt for something to eat when he saw a school of little fish swimming straight towards him .
` Perhaps , ' thought he , ` if I keep perfectly still , they will come near enough for me to catch one . '
So he kept perfectly still .
He did n't dare even stretch his long neck up .
Sure enough , the little fish swam almost to his very feet .
They did n't see him at all .
When they were near enough , he darted his long neck forward and caught one without any trouble at all .
Mr. Heron was almost as surprised as the fish he had caught .
You see , he discovered that with his neck laid back on his shoulders that way , he could dart his head forward ever so much quicker than when he was holding it up straight .
It really was a great discovery for Mr. Heron .
`` Of course all the other fish darted away in great fright , but Mr. Heron did n't mind .
He settled himself in great contentment , for now he was less hungry .
By and by some foolish tadpoles came wriggling along .
` I 'll just try catching one of them for practice .
Maybe they are good to eat , ' thought Mr. Heron , and just as before darted his head and great bill downward and caught a tadpole . ''
` Um-m , they are good ! '
exclaimed Mr. Heron , and once more settled himself to watch and wait .
`` That was a sad day for the Frog family , but a great day for Mr. Heron when he discovered that tadpoles were good to eat . ''
Grandfather Frog sighed mournfully .
`` Yes , '' he continued , `` that was a great day for Mr. Heron .
He had discovered that he could gain more by patient waiting than by frantic hunting , and he had found that his long neck really was a blessing .
After that , whenever he was hungry , he would stand perfectly still beside some little pool where foolish young fish or careless tadpoles were at play and wait patiently until they came within reach .
`` One day he was startled into an attempt to fly by hearing the stealthy footsteps of Mr. Fox behind him .
His head was drawn back on his shoulders at the time , and he was so excited that he forgot to straighten it out .
Just imagine how surprised he was , and how surprised Mr. Fox was , when he sailed away in beautiful flight , his long legs trailing behind him .
With his neck carried that way , he could fly as well as any one .
From that day on , no one laughed at Mr. Heron because of his long legs and long neck .
Mr. Heron himself became proud of them .
You see , he had learned how to use what he had been given .
Also he had learned the value of patience .
So he was happy and envied no one .
But he still liked best to keep by himself and became known as the lone fisherman , just as Longlegs is to-day .
Chug-a-rum !
Is n't that Longlegs coming this way this very minute ?
This is no place for me ! ''
With a great splash Grandfather Frog dived into the Smiling Pool .
-LSB- Illustration : `` His legs were so long , and his neck was so long that all his neighbors laughed at him . ''
Page 210 . -RSB-
XVI HOW TUFTY THE LYNX HAPPENS TO HAVE A STUMP OF A TAIL XVI HOW TUFTY THE LYNX HAPPENS TO HAVE A STUMP OF A TAIL In all his life Peter Rabbit had seen Tufty the Lynx but once , but that once was enough .
Tufty , you know , lives in the Great Woods .
But once , when the winter was very cold , he had ventured down into the Green Forest , hoping that it would be easier to get a living there .
It was then that Peter had seen him .
In fact , Peter had had the narrowest of escapes , and the very memory of it made him shiver .
He never would forget that great , gray , skulking form that slipped like a shadow through the trees , that fierce , bearded face , those cruel , pale yellow-green eyes , or that switching stump of a tail .
That tail fascinated Peter .
It was just an apology for a tail .
For Tufty 's size it was hardly as much of a tail as Peter himself has .
It made Peter feel a lot better .
Also it made him very curious .
The first chance he got , he asked his cousin , Jumper the Hare , about it .
You know Jumper used to live in the Great Woods where Tufty lives , and Peter felt sure that he must know the reason why Tufty has such a ridiculous stub of a tail .
Jumper did know , and this is the story he told Peter : `` Way back in the beginning of things lived old Mr. Lynx . ''
`` I know , '' interrupted Peter .
`` He was the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Tufty , and he was n't old then . ''
`` Who 's telling this story ? ''
demanded Jumper crossly .
`` If you know it why did you ask me ? ''
`` I beg your pardon .
Indeed I do .
I wo n't say another word , '' replied Peter hastily .
`` All right , see that you do n't .
Interruptions always spoil a story , '' said Jumper .
`` You are quite right about old Mr. Lynx .
He was n't old then .
No one was old , because it was in the beginning of things .
At that time Mr. Lynx boasted a long tail , quite as fine a tail as his cousin , Mr. Panther .
He was very proud of it .
You know there is a saying that pride goes before a fall .
It was so with Mr. Lynx .
He boasted about his tail .
He said that it was the finest tail in the world .
He said so much that his neighbors got tired of hearing about it .
He made a perfect nuisance of himself .
He switched and waved his long tail about continually .
It seemed as if that tail were never still .
He made fun of those whose tails were shorter or of different shape or less handsome .
He quite forgot that that tail had been given him by Old Mother Nature , but talked and acted as if he had grown that tail himself .
`` When at last his neighbors could stand it no longer , they decided to teach him a lesson .
One day while he was off hunting , they held a meeting , and it was decided that the very next time that Mr. Lynx boasted of his tail old King Bear should slip up behind him and step on it as close to his body as he could , and then each of the others should pull a little tuft of hair from it , so that it would be a long time before Mr. Lynx would be able to boast of its beauty again .
`` The chance came that very evening .
Mr. Lynx had had a very successful day , and he was feeling very fine .
He began to boast of what a great hunter he was , and of how very clever and very smart he was , and then , as usual , he got to boasting about his tail .
He was so intent on his boasting that he did n't notice old King Bear slipping around behind him .
Old King Bear waited until that long tail was still for just an instant , and then he stepped on it as close to the roots of it as he could .
Then all the other little people shouted with glee and began to pull little tufts of hair from it , until it was the most disreputable-looking tail ever seen .
`` Old Mr. Lynx let out a yowl and a screech that was enough to make your blood run cold .
But he could n't do a thing , though he tore the ground up with his great claws and pulled with all his might .
You see , old King Bear was very big and very heavy , and Mr. Lynx could n't budge his tail a bit .
And he could n't turn to fight old King Bear , though it seemed as if he would turn himself inside out trying to .
`` At last , when old King Bear thought he had been punished enough , he gave the word to the others , and they all scattered to safe hiding-places , for they were of no mind to be within reach of those great claws of Mr. Lynx .
Then old King Bear let him go . ''
` By the looks of it , I hardly think that you will boast of that tail for a long time to come , Mr. Lynx , ' said he in his deep , rumbly-grumbly voice .
`` Mr. Lynx turned and screamed in old King Bear 's face , but that was all he dared do , for you know old King Bear was very big and strong .
Then he turned and slunk away in the shadows by himself .
Now Mr. Lynx had a terrible temper , and when he saw how ragged and disreputable his once beautiful tail looked , he flew into a terrible rage , and he swore that no one should laugh at his tail .
What do you think he did ? ''
`` What ? ''
asked Peter eagerly .
`` He bit it off , '' replied Jumper slowly .
`` Yes , Sir , he bit it off right at the place where old King Bear had stepped on it .
Of course he was sorry the minute he had done it , but it was done , and that was all there was to it .
After that he kept out of sight of all his neighbors .
He prowled around mostly at night and was very stealthy and soft-footed , always keeping in the shadows .
His temper grew worse and worse from brooding over his lost tail .
When any one chanced to surprise him , he would switch his stub of a tail just as he used to switch his long tail .
You see he would forget .
Then when he was laughed at by those bigger than he , he would scream angrily and slink away like a great , gray shadow .
`` Once he besought Old Mother Nature to give him a new tail , but in vain .
She gave him a lecture which he never forgot .
She told him that it was no one 's fault but his own that he had lost the beautiful tail that he did have and had nothing but a stub left .
Mr. Lynx crawled on his stomach to the feet of Old Mother Nature and begged with tears in his eyes .
Old Mother Nature looked him straight in the eyes , but he could n't look straight back .
He tried , but he could n't do it .
He would shift his eyes from side to side . ''
` Look me straight in the face , Mr. Lynx , and tell me that if I give you a handsome new tail , you will never boast about it or take undue pride in it , ' said she .
`` Mr. Lynx looked her straight in the face and said ` I -- ' Then his eyes shifted .
He brought them back to Old Mother Nature 's face with a jerk and began again . '
I promise -- ' Once more his eyes shifted .
Then he gave up and sneaked away into the darkest shadows he could find .
You see , he could n't look Old Mother Nature in the face and tell a lie , and that was just what he had been trying to do .
The only reason he wanted a new tail was so that he could be proud of it and boast of it as he had of the old one .
He had n't a single real use for it , as he had found out since he had had only that stub .
`` Old Mother Nature knew this perfectly well , for you ca n't fool her , and it 's of no use to try .
So Mr. Lynx never did get a new tail .
He continued to live very much by himself in the darkest parts of the Green Forest , never showing himself to others if he could help it .
To the little people , he was like a fearsome shadow to be watched out for at all times .
His children were just like him , and his children 's children .
Tufty is the same way .
No one likes him .
All who are smaller than he fear him .
And if he knows why he has only a stub of a tail , he never mentions it .
But you will notice that he switches it just as if it were a real tail .
I think he likes to imagine that it is a real one . ''
`` I 've noticed , '' replied Peter .
He was silent for a few minutes .
Then he added : `` Is n't it curious how often we want things we do n't need at all , and how those are the things that make us the most trouble in this world ? ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind_"Where"_Stories.txt.out
I WHERE GRANDFATHER FROG GOT HIS BIG MOUTH Everybody knows that Grandfather Frog has a big mouth .
Of course !
It would n't be possible to look him straight in the face and not know that he has a big mouth .
In fact , about all you see when you look Grandfather Frog full in the face are his great big mouth and two great big goggly eyes .
He seems then to be all mouth and eyes .
Anyway , that is what Peter Rabbit says .
Peter never will forget the first time he saw Grandfather Frog .
Peter was very young then .
He had run away from home to see the Great World , and in the course of his wanderings he came to the Smiling Pool .
Never before had he seen so much water .
The most water he had ever seen before was a little puddle in the Lone Little Path .
So when Peter , who was only half grown then , hopped out on the bank of the Smiling Pool and saw it dimpling and smiling in the sunshine , he thought it the most wonderful thing he ever had seen .
The truth is that in those days Peter was in the habit of thinking everything he saw for the first time the most wonderful thing yet , and as he was continually seeing new things , and as his eyes always nearly popped out of his head whenever he saw something new , it is a wonder that he did n't become pop-eyed .
Peter stared and stared at the Smiling Pool , and little by little he began to see other things .
First he noticed the bulrushes growing with their feet in the water .
They looked to him like giant grass , and he began to be a little fearful lest this should prove to be a sort of magic place -- a place of giants .
Then he noticed the lily-pads , and he stared very hard at these .
They looked like growing things , and yet they seemed to be floating right on top of the water .
It was n't until a Merry Little Breeze came along and turned the edge of one up so that Peter saw the long stem running down in the water out of sight , that he was able to understand how those lily-pads could be growing there .
He was still staring at those lily-pads when a great deep voice said : `` Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum !
Do n't you know it is n't polite to stare at people ? ''
That voice was so unexpected and so deep that Peter was startled .
He jumped , started to run , then stopped .
He wanted to run , but curiosity would n't let him .
He simply could n't run away until he had found out where that voice came from and to whom it belonged .
It seemed to Peter that it had come from right out of the Smiling Pool , but look as he would , he could n't see any one there .
`` If you please , '' said Peter timidly , `` I 'm not staring at anybody . ''
All the time he was staring down into the Smiling Pool with eyes fairly popping out of his head .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Have a care , young fellow !
Have a care how you talk to your elders .
Do you mean to be impudent enough to tell me to my face that I am not anybody ? ''
The voice was deeper and gruffer than ever , and it made Peter more uncomfortable than ever .
`` Oh , no , Sir !
No , indeed ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` I do n't mean anything of the kind .
I -- I -- well , if you please , Sir , I do n't see you at all , so how can I be staring at you ?
I 'm sure from the sound of your voice that you must be somebody very important .
Please excuse me for seeming to stare .
I was just looking for you , that is all . ''
A little movement in the water close to a big green lily-pad caught Peter 's eyes , and then out on the big green lily-pad climbed Grandfather Frog .
If Peter had stared before he doubly stared now , eyes and mouth wide open .
Grandfather Frog was looking his very best in his handsome green coat and white-and-yellow waistcoat .
But Peter had hardly noticed these at all .
`` Why , you 're all mouth ! ''
he exclaimed , and then looked very much ashamed of his impoliteness .
Grandfather Frog 's great goggly eyes twinkled .
He knew that Peter was very young and innocent and just starting out in the Great World .
He knew that Peter did n't intend to be impolite .
`` Not quite , '' said he good-naturedly .
`` Not quite all mouth , though I must admit that it is of good size .
The fact is , I would n't have it a bit smaller if I could .
If it were any smaller , I should miss many a good meal , and if I were forced to do that , I am afraid I should be very ill-tempered indeed .
The truth is , I am very proud of my big mouth .
I do n't know of any one who has a bigger one for their size . ''
He opened his mouth wide , and it seemed to Peter that Grandfather Frog 's whole head simply split in halves .
He had n't supposed anybody in all the Great World possessed such a mouth .
`` Where did you get it ? ''
gasped Peter , and then felt that he had asked a very foolish question .
Grandfather Frog chuckled .
`` I got it from my father , and he got his from his father , and so on , way back to the days when the world was young and the Frogs ruled the world , '' said he .
`` Would you like to hear about it ? ''
`` I 'd love to ! ''
cried Peter .
So he settled himself comfortably on the bank of the Smiling Pool for the first of many , many stories he was to hear from Grandfather Frog .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
began Grandfather Frog .
You know he always begins a story that way .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Once upon a time the Great World was mostly water , and most of the people lived in the water .
It was in those days that my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather lived .
Those were happy days for the Frogs .
Yes , indeed , those were happy days for the Frogs .
Of course they had enemies , but those enemies were all in the water .
They did n't have to be watching out for danger from the air and from the land , as I do now .
There was plenty to eat and little to do , and the Frog tribe increased very fast .
In fact , the Frogs increased so fast that after a while there was n't plenty to eat .
That is , there was n't plenty of the kind of food they had been used to , which was mostly water plants , and water bugs and such things .
`` Of course there were many fish , and these also increased very fast , and the big fish ate the Frogs whenever they could catch them , just as they do to this day .
The big fish also ate the little fish , and it was n't long before the Frogs and the little fish took to living where the water was not deep enough for the big fish to swim , and this made it all the harder to get enough to eat .
The mouths of the Frogs in those days were not big .
In fact , they were quite small .
You see , living on the kind of food they did , they had no need of big mouths .
`` One day as a Great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather Frog sat with just his head out of water , wondering what it would seem like to have his stomach really filled , a school of little fish came swimming about him , and it popped into his head that if little fish were good for big fish to eat , they might be good for a Frog to eat .
So he caught the first one that came within reach , and he found it was good to eat .
He liked it so well that after that he caught fish whenever he could .
Of course he swallowed them whole .
He had to , because he had no chewing or biting teeth .
`` Now the Frogs always have been famous for their appetites , and Great-grandfather Frog found that it took a great many of these teeny weeny fish to make a comfortable meal .
He was thinking of this one day when a larger fish came within reach , and almost without realizing what he was doing Great-grandfather snapped at and caught him .
He caught the fish by the tail and at once began to swallow it , which , of course , was no way to swallow a fish .
But Great-grandfather Frog had much to learn in those day , and so he tried to swallow that fish tail first instead of head first .
He got the tail down and the smallest part of the body , and then that fish stuck .
Yes , Sir , that fish stuck .
The fact was , Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth was n't wide enough .
It was bad enough not to be able to swallow all of that fish , but what was worse was the discovery that he could n't get up again what he had swallowed .
That fish was stuck !
It would go neither down nor up .
`` Poor Great-grandfather Frog was in a terrible fix .
Big tears rolled down his cheeks .
He choked and choked and choked , until it looked very much as if he might choke to death .
Just in time , in the very nick of time , who should come along but Old Mother Nature .
She saw right away what the trouble was , and she pulled out the fish .
Then she asked how that fish had happened to be in such a place as Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth .
When he could get his breath , he told her all about it -- how food had been getting scarce and how he had discovered that fish were good to eat , and how he had make a mistake in catching a fish too big for his mouth .
Old Mother Nature looked thoughtful .
She saw the great numbers of young fish .
Suddenly she reached over and put a finger in Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth and stretched it sideways .
Then she did the same thing to the other corner .
Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth was three times as big as it had been before . ''
` Now , ' said she , ' I do n't believe you 'll have any more trouble , and I 'm going to do the same thing for all the other Frogs . '
`` She did that very day , and from then on the Frogs no longer had any trouble in getting plenty to eat .
So that is where I got my big mouth , and I tell you right now I would n't trade it for anything anybody else has got , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , as he snapped up a foolish green fly who came too near .
`` I think it is splendid , perfectly splendid , '' cried Peter .
`` I wish I had one just like it . ''
And then he wondered why Grandfather Frog laughed so hard .
II WHERE MISER THE TRADE RAT FIRST SET UP SHOP It was quite by accident that Peter Rabbit first heard of Miser the Trade Rat .
You know how it is with Peter ; he is forever using those big ears of his to learn interesting things .
That is what ears are for ; but there is a right way and a wrong way to use them , and I am afraid that Peter is n't always over-particular in this respect .
I suspect , in fact I know , that Peter sometimes listens when he has no business to listen and knows he has no business to listen .
Again he sometimes overhears things quite by accident when he can not very well help hearing .
It was in this way that he first heard of Miser the Trade Rat .
Peter had crept into a hollow log in the Green Forest to rest and to feel absolutely safe while he was doing it .
He had been there only a little while when he heard light footsteps outside and a moment later a voice which made him shiver a little in spite of himself and the knowledge that he was perfectly safe .
The footsteps and the voice were Old Man Coyote 's .
Very carefully Peter peeped out .
Old Man Coyote had sat down close by the log in which Peter was hiding .
On a dead tree close at hand sat Ol' Mistah Buzzard , who had come up from way down south for the summer , and it was to him that Old Man Coyote was talking .
`` I was over by Farmer Brown 's barn last night , '' said Old Man Coyote , `` and I caught a glimpse of Robber the Brown Eat .
What a disgrace he is to the whole Rat tribe !
For that matter , he is a disgrace to all who live on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
He is n't much like his cousin , Miser the Trade Rat . ''
`` Mah goodness !
Do yo ' know Miser ? ''
exclaimed Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Do I know Miser ?
I should say I do ! ''
replied Old Man Coyote .
`` I 've tried to catch him enough times to know him .
He kept a junk shop very near where I used to live way out west .
Do you know him , Mr. Buzzard ? ''
`` Ah cert ` nly does , '' chuckled Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Ah cert ` nly does .
Ah never did see such a busy fellow as he is .
Ah done see his junk shop many times , and always it done be growin ' bigger .
Ah wonders , Brer Coyote , if yo ' ever heard the story of his Great-great-ever-so-great-gran ' - daddy , the first of the family , and how and where he started the business that 's been kept in the family ever since . ''
`` No , '' said Old Man Coyote , `` I never did , and I 've wondered about it a great deal . ''
Peter Rabbit almost forgot that he was hiding .
He was so eager to hear that story that he was right on the point of speaking up and begging Ol' Mistah Buzzard to tell it when he remembered Old Man Coyote .
Just in the nick of time he clapped a hand over his mouth .
It seemed to Peter a long , long time before Old Man Coyote said : `` I 'd like to hear that story , Mr. Buzzard , if it is n't too much to ask of you . ''
`` Not at all , Brer Coyote ; not at all .
Ah 'll be mor 'n pleased to tell it to yo ' .
Ah cert ` nly will , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard , and Peter settled himself comfortably to listen .
`` Yo ' see it was this way , '' began Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Ah got it from mah gran ` daddy , and he got it from his gran ` daddy , and his gran ` daddy got it from -- '' `` I know , '' interrupted Old Man Coyote .
`` It was handed down from your greatest-great-grandfather , who lived in the days when the world was young and what you are going to tell me about happened .
Is n't that it ? ''
`` Yes , Suh , '' replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Yes , Suh , that 's it .
Ol' Mother Nature treat 'em all alike in those days .
She 's a right smart busy person , and she ai n't got no time fo ' to answer foolish questions .
No , Suh , she ai n't .
So , quick as she get a new kind of critter made , she turn him loose and tell him if he want to live he got to be right smart and find out for hisself how to do it .
Ah reckons yo ' know all about that , Brer Coyote . ''
Old Man Coyote nodded , and Ol' Mistah Buzzard scratched his bald head gently as if trying to stir up his memory .
Peter Rabbit almost squealed aloud in his impatience while he waited for Ol' Mistah Buzzard to go on .
`` When Ol' Mother Nature made Brer Trade Rat in the beginning and turned him loose in the Great World , he was just plain Mistah Rat and nothing more , same as his no ` count cousin , Robber the Brown Rat , '' continued Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` He had to win a name for hisself same as ev ` ybody else .
He had mighty sharp wits , had this Mistah Rat , and directly he found he had to shift for hisself he began to study and study and study what he gwine to do to live well and be happy .
He watched his neighbors to see what they did , and it did n't take him long to find out that if he would be respected he must have a home .
Those without homes were mostly no ` count folks , same as they are today .
`` So Brer Rat made a nest close to the trunk of a tree on the edge of the Green Forest , a soft , warm nest , and in collectin ' the stuff to make it of he learned the joy of bein ' busy .
Person ` ly , yo ' understand , Ah thinks he was all wrong .
Ah never am so happy as when Ah can take a sun-bath with nothin ' to do .
But Brer Rat was never so happy as when he was busy , and when he got that li'l nest finished time began to hang heavy on his hands .
Yes , Suh , it cert ` nly did .
Just because he did n't have anything else to do he began to add a little more to his house .
One day he stepped on a thorn .
` Ouch ! '
cried Brer Rat , and then right away forgot the pain in a new idea .
He would cover his house with thorns , leavin ' just a little secret entrance for hisself !
Then he would be safe , wholly safe from his big neighbors , some of whom had begun to look at him with such a hungry look in their eyes that they made him right smart uncomfortable .
So he spent his time , did Brer Rat , in huntin ' for the longest and sharpest thorns and in cuttin ' the branches on which they grew .
These he carried to his house and piled them around it and on it until it had become a great pile with sharp thorns stickin ' out in every direction , and the hungriest of the big people of the forest passed it at a respectful distance .
`` When Brer Rat had all the thorns he needed and more , he began to collect other things and added these to his pile .
Yo ' see , he had found that it was great fun to collect things ; to find the queerest things he could and bring them home and look at them and wonder about them .
So little by little his house became a sort of junk shop , the very first one in all the Great World .
Bright stones and shells , bones , anything that caught his bright eyes and pleased them , he brought home .
When he was tired of huntin ' fo ' food or more strange things he would sit and gloat over his treasures and play with them .
And then the first thing he knew he had a name .
Yes , Suh , he had a name .
He was called Miser .
`` Of course Brer Miser had n't lived ve ' y long befo ' he found out that one law of the Great World was that things belonged to whoever could get them and keep them .
He saw that some thought themselves ve ' y smart when they stole from their neighbors .
Brer Miser did n't like this at all .
He was ve ` y , ye ' y honest , was Brer Miser .
Perhaps he was n't really much tempted , not fo ' a long time anyway .
`` But at last came a time when he was tempted .
Quite by accident he found one of Mr. Squirrel 's storehouses .
In it were some nuts different from any he ever had seen befo ' .
` Brer Squirrel wo n't mind if Ah taste just one , ' said he , and did it .
It tasted good ; it tasted ve ' y good indeed .
Brer Miser began to wish he had some nuts like those .
When he got home he could n't think of anything but how good those nuts tasted .
He knew that all he had to do was to watch until Brer Squirrel was away and then go he ' p hisself .
He knew that was just what any of his neighbors would do in his place .
But Brer Miser could n't make it seem just right any way he looked at it .
He was too honest , was Brer Miser , to do anything like that .
`` He was sitting staring at his treasures but thinking about those nuts when an idea popped into his head , an idea that made him smile until Ah reckons he most split his cheeks .
` Ah knows what Ah 'll do , ' said he .
` Ah 'll just he ' p mahself to some of those nuts and Ah 'll leave something of mine in place of them .
That 's what Ah 'll do . '
`` And that 's what he did do .
He picked out a bright shell of which he was very fond and he left it in Brer Squirrel 's storehouse to pay fo ' the nuts that he took .
After that he always helped himself to anything he wanted , but he always left something to pay fo ' it .
It was n't long befo ' his neighbors found out what he was doing , and then they called him Miser the Trade Rat .
Whenever anybody found something he did n't want hisself , he took it to the little junk shop of Miser the Trade Rat and traded it fo ' something else , or left it where Miser would find it , knowing that Miser would leave something in its place .
`` And it 's been just so with Miser 's family ever since .
There is one Rat who is a credit to his family instead of a disgrace , '' concluded Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
III WHERE YAP-YAP THE PRAIRIE DOG USED HIS WITS Peter Rabbit had just had a great fright .
He is used to having great frights , but this time it was a different kind of a fright .
It was not for himself that he had been afraid but for one of his old friends and neighbors .
Now that it was over , Peter drew a little breath of sheer relief .
You see it was this way : Peter had started over for a call on Johnny Chuck .
When he reached Johnny Chuck 's house he found no one at home .
At first he thought he would go look for Johnny , for he knew that Johnny must be somewhere near , as he never goes far from his own doorstep .
Then he changed his mind and decided to wait for Johnny to return .
So he stretched himself out in some tall grass beside Johnny Chuck 's house , intending to jump out and give Johnny a scare when he came home .
Hardly had he settled himself when he heard Johnny coming , and he knew by the sounds that Johnny was running from some danger .
Very , very carefully Peter raised his head to see .
Then he ducked it again and held his breath .
Johnny Chuck was running as Peter never had seen him run before and with very good reason .
Just a few jumps behind Johnny 's twinkling little black heels was Old Man Coyote .
It looked to Peter as if Old Man Coyote certainly would catch Johnny Chuck this time .
He was so frightened for Johnny that he quite forgot that he himself might be in danger .
Head first through his doorway plunged Johnny , and Old Man Coyote 's teeth snapped together on nothing .
Old Man Coyote backed away a few steps and sat down with his head on one side as he studied Johnny Chuck 's house in the ground .
It was plain to be seen that he was trying to make up his mind whether it would be worth while to try to dig Johnny out .
Presently Johnny came half-way up his long hall where he could look out .
Then he began to scold Old Man Coyote .
Old Man Coyote grinned .
`` I give up , Johnny Chuck , '' said he .
`` You did well when you made your home between the roots of this old tree .
If it was n't for those roots , I certainly would dig you out .
As it is you are safe .
You remind me very much of your cousin , Yap-Yap the Prairie Dog , who lives out where I came from .
There 's a fellow who certainly knows how to make a house in the ground .
He does n't have to depend on the roots of trees to keep from being dug out .
Well , I guess it is a waste of time to hang around here .
You 'll make just as good a dinner some other time as you would now , so I 'll wait until then . ''
Old Man Coyote grinned wickedly and trotted off .
Now at the mention of Yap-Yap the Prairie Dog , the long ears of Peter Rabbit had pricked up at once .
It was the first time he had heard of Yap-Yap , and when at last Johnny Chuck ventured out Peter was as full of questions as a pea-pod is of peas .
But Johnny Chuck knew nothing about his cousin , Yap-Yap , and was n't even interested in him .
So finally Peter left him and went back home to the dear Old Briar-patch .
But he could n't get Yap-Yap out of his mind , and he resolved that the first chance he got he would ask Old Man Coyote about him .
The chance came that very night .
Old Man Coyote came along by the dear Old Briar-patch and stopped to peer in and grin at Peter .
Peter grinned back , for he knew that under those friendly brambles he was quite safe .
`` I heard what you said to Johnny Chuck about his cousin , Yap-Yap , '' said Peter .
Old Man Coyote looked as surprised as he felt .
`` Where were you ? ''
he demanded gruffly .
`` Lying flat in the grass close by Johnny Chuck 's house , '' replied Peter , and grinned more broadly than ever .
`` And to think I did n't know it ! ''
sighed Old Man Coyote .
`` When I failed to catch Johnny Chuck , I thought I had missed only one dinner , but it seems I missed two .
Next time I shall look around a little more sharply .
Do you know , the sight of Johnny Chuck always makes me homesick , he reminds me so much of his cousin , Yap-Yap , and the days when I was young . ''
`` I did n't know that Johnny Chuck had a cousin until you mentioned it , '' said Peter .
`` Does he look like Johnny ?
Wo n't you tell me about him , Mr. Coyote ? ''
`` Seeing that I have n't anything in particular to do , I do n't know but I will , '' replied Old Man Coyote , who happened to be feeling very good-natured .
`` Many and many a time I have chased Yap-Yap into his house .
Seems as if I can hear the rascal scolding me and calling me names right this minute .
He used to get me so provoked that it was all I could do to keep from trying to dig him out . ''
`` Why did n't you ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Because it would have meant a waste of time , sore feet , and nothing to show for my trouble , '' retorted Old Man Coyote .
`` Yap-Yap never has forgotten what his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather learned when he first took to living on the open prairie . ''
`` What did he learn ?
Tell me about it , Mr. Coyote , '' begged Peter .
`` He learned to use his wits , '' replied Old Man Coyote , with a provoking grin .
`` He learned to use his wits , that 's all . ''
`` Please tell me about it , Mr. Coyote .
Please , '' begged Peter .
`` Once upon a time , '' began Old Man Coyote , `` so my grandfather told me , and he got it from his grandfather , who got it from his grandfather , who -- '' `` I know , '' interrupted Peter .
`` It happened in the days when the world was young . ''
Old Man Coyote looked at Peter very hard as if he had half a mind not to tell the story , but Peter looked so innocent and so eager that he began again .
`` Once upon a time lived the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Yap-Yap , the very first of all the Prairie Dogs , and his name was Yap-Yap too .
He was own cousin to old Mr. Woodchuck , who of course was n't old then , and the two cousins looked much alike , save that Yap-Yap was a little smaller than Mr. Woodchuck and perhaps a little smarter looking .
`` From the very beginning Yap-Yap was a keen lover of the great open spaces .
Trees were all very well for those who liked them , but he preferred to have nothing above him but the blue , blue sky .
It seemed to him that he never could find a big enough open space , so he never stayed very long in any one place , but kept pushing on and on , looking for a spot in the Great World that would just suit him .
At last he came to the edge of the Green Forest , and before him , as far as he could see , stretched the Green Meadows .
At least it was like the Green Meadows , only a million thousand times as big as the Green Meadows we are on now , Peter , and was really the Great Prairie .
`` Yap-Yap looked and looked , then he drew a long breath of pure joy and started out across the green grass .
On and on he went , until when he sat up and looked this way or that way or the other way he could see nothing but grass and flowers , and over him was naught but the blue , blue sky .
He had found the great open space of which he had dreamed , and he was happy .
So he ate and slept and played with the Merry Little Breezes and grew fat .
`` Then one day came Skimmer the Swallow and brought him news of the hard times which had come to the rest of the Great World and how as a result the big and the strong were hunting the small and the weak in order that they themselves might live .
When Skimmer had gone , Yap-Yap grew uneasy .
What if some of the big and strong people he had known should come out there in quest of food and should find him ?
There was no place in which to hide .
There was no cave or hollow log .
`` Yap-Yap looked at the strong claws Old Mother Nature had given him and an idea came to him .
He would dig a hole in the ground .
So he dug a hole on a long slant very much like the hole of Johnny Chuck ; but when it was finished a little doubt crept into his head and grew and grew .
What was to prevent some one who was very hungry from digging him out ?
So he moved on a little way and started another hole , and this time he made it almost straight down .
Every day he made that hole deeper until it was many feet deep .
Then he made a turn in it and dug a long tunnel , at the end of which he hollowed out a comfortable bedroom and lined it with grass .
When it was finished he was quite satisfied . '' '
I do n't believe , ' said he , ` that any one will have the patience to dig to the bottom of this . '
`` So at night he slept in his bed at the end of his long hall far below the surface , but all day he spent above ground , for he dearly loved the sunshine .
All went well until there came a time of heavy rains .
Then Yap-Yap discovered that the water ran down his hole , and if he did n't do something , he was likely to be drowned out .
Right away he set his sharp wits to work .
He noticed that when the water on the surface reached the little piles of sand he had made , it ran around them .
So he made a great mound of sand around his hole with the entrance in the middle and pressed it firm on the inside so that the rain would not wash it down in .
Then , although the water stood all around , it no longer ran down in his house .
In fair weather that mound was a splendid place on which to sit and watch for danger .
So once more Yap-Yap was happy and care-free , all because he had used his wits .
`` And from that day to this the Prairie Dogs have made their houses in just that way , and no one that I know cares to try to dig one out , '' concluded Old Man Coyote .
IV WHERE YELLOW-WING GOT HIS LIKING FOR THE GROUND Peter Rabbit was hopping along on the edge of the Green Meadows , looking for a new patch of sweet clover .
It was very beautiful that morning , and Peter was in the best of spirits .
It was good just to be alive .
Every once in a while Peter would jump up and kick his long heels together just from pure happiness .
He was so happy that he did n't pay particular attention to where he was going or what was about him .
The result was that Peter got a fright .
Right from under his very nose something sprang out of the grass so suddenly and so wholly unexpectedly that Peter very nearly tumbled over backward .
He made two long jumps off to one side and then turned to see what had startled him so .
But all he saw was an old feathered acquaintance headed towards the Old Orchard .
He seemed to bound along through the air much as Peter bounds along over the ground when he is in a hurry .
It was Yellow-Wing the Flicker .
Peter grinned and looked a little foolish .
He felt a little foolish .
You know it always makes you feel foolish to be frightened when there is nothing to be afraid of .
Peter watched Yellow-Wing until he disappeared among the trees of the Old Orchard , from which presently his voice sounded clear and loud , and in it there was a mocking note as if Yellow-Wing were laughing at him .
Peter suspected that he was .
But Peter was feeling too happy to mind being laughed at .
In fact , he chuckled himself .
It was something of a joke to be frightened by one who was so wholly harmless .
Peter recalled how many times he had frightened other people and thought it the best of jokes .
Peter went on until he found a new patch of sweet clover .
Then he forgot all about Yellow-Wing .
He was too busy filling that big stomach of his to think of anything else .
When he could n't find room for another leaf of clover he went home to the dear Old Briar-patch , and there in his favorite spot he settled himself to rest and think or dream as the case might be .
Presently his thoughts returned to Yellow-Wing , and he chuckled again at the memory of his fright that morning .
And then for the first time it struck Peter as queer that Yellow-Wing should have been out there on the Green Meadows on the ground .
He often had seen Yellow-Wing on the ground , but until that moment there never had seemed anything queer about that .
Now , however , it suddenly came to Peter that Yellow-Wing belonged in trees , not on the ground .
Peter scratched his long left ear with his long left hind foot , which was a sign that he was thinking of something that puzzled him .
`` He belongs to the Woodpecker family , '' thought Peter , `` and never have I seen any of his relatives on the ground .
They get all their food in the trees .
Now why is Yellow-Wing so different from his relatives ? ''
The more Peter thought about it , the queerer it seemed that a Woodpecker should spend so much time on the ground , or visit the ground at all , for that matter .
But just wondering about it did n't get him anywhere , and at last Peter decided that the only way to find out would be to ask questions .
So Peter made up his mind to watch for Yellow-Wing and ask him all about it the first chance he got .
The chance came the very next day in the very same place where Peter had been so startled .
This time he was on the watch and saw Yellow-Wing very busy about something .
Peter stole up within speaking distance .
`` Good morning , Yellow-Wing , '' said he .
`` I wonder if you will tell me something . ''
It was Yellow-Wing 's turn to be startled , for he had not seen Peter approaching .
He half lifted his wings to fly , but when he saw who it was , he changed his mind .
`` It all depends on what it is you want me to tell you , '' he replied rather shortly .
`` It is just this , '' replied Peter .
`` Why do you spend so much time on the ground ? ''
`` That 's easily answered , '' laughed Fellow-Wing .
`` I do it because it is the easiest way to get enough to eat . ''
Peter looked as surprised as he felt .
`` I thought that all your family got their living in the trees ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` All do but me , '' replied Yellow-Wing a wee bit testily .
`` But I do n't have to do what they do just because they do it .
No , Siree , I 'm independent !
Do you like ants , Peter ? ''
`` What ? ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` I asked if you like ants , '' repeated Yellow-Wing .
`` I 've never tried them , '' Peter replied , `` but I 've heard Old Mr. Toad say they are very nice . ''
`` They are , '' said Yellow-Wing .
`` They are more than nice -- they are de-li-cious .
It is because of them that I spend so much time on the ground .
Ants changed the habits of the Flicker branch of the Woodpecker family .
I would n't be surprised if we became regular ground birds one of these days . ''
Peter looked puzzled .
He kept turning it over in his mind as he watched Yellow-Wing plunge his long stout bill into an ant hill and then gobble up the ants as they came rushing out to see what the trouble was .
`` I do n't see how ants could change the habits of anybody , '' he ventured after a while .
Yellow-Wing 's eyes twinkled .
`` Why do n't you learn to eat them ? ''
he demanded .
`` If you would , they might change your habits .
The beginning of the change in the habits of my folks began a long time ago . ''
`` Way back in the beginning of things , when the world was young ? ''
asked Peter .
`` No , not quite so far back as that , '' replied Yellow-Wing .
`` Great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , who was the first Flicker , was , of course , a member of the Woodpecker family , and he got his living in regular Woodpecker fashion .
It never entered his head to look for food anywhere but in the trees , and I do n't suppose that it ever entered his head to set foot on the ground .
It was the same with his children and his children 's children for a long time .
`` But though they lived as true Woodpeckers should , the Flickers always were a bit sharper-witted and more independent than most of their relatives .
For one thing they had discovered that ants were fine eating and that great numbers of them were to be found running up and down the trunks of certain trees .
So the Flickers used to look for these trees and feast on the ants .
It saved a lot of labor .
A stomachful of ants could be picked from the trunk of a tree in the time it would take to dig out one worm in the wood , to say nothing of the saving of hard work .
`` One day a few years ago my great-great-great-grandfather , so the story goes , had stuffed himself with ants from the trunk of a tree and had settled himself for a rest .
From where he sat he could see a procession of ants going up and down the tree , and he got to wondering where they all came from and where they all went to .
So he watched and presently discovered that that double line of ants led out along the ground from the foot of the tree .
This made him still more curious and he followed it , flying along just over it .
He had gone but a short distance when he came to a little mound of sand , and there the line of ants ended .
Grandfather Flicker flew up in a tree from which he could look right down on that mound , and it did n't take him long to discover that those ants were going in and out of little holes in that mound . ''
` As I live , that must be their home ! '
exclaimed he .
` That place is alive with them .
What a place to fill one 's stomach !
I never was on the ground in my life , but the next time I 'm hungry , I 'm going to see what the ground is like .
I wo n't have to stay on it long to get my dinner here . '
`` Grandfather Flicker was as good as his word .
When he was ready for another meal , he flew down to that ant hill .
He found that when he plunged his bill into it , the ants fairly poured out to see what was happening , and all he had to do was to thrust out his long sticky tongue and lick them up .
Never in all his life before had he filled his stomach so easily .
After that , instead of wasting time hunting for worms and insects in the trees where he could find only one at a time , Grandfather Flicker kept his eyes open for ant hills on the ground .
He taught his children to do the same thing .
That was the beginning of the change of habits with the Flickers .
Ever since we have spent more and more time on the ground , so that now we feel quite at home there .
We still get some of our food in the trees by way of variety , and we make our homes there , but a good big part of our food we get just as I am doing now . ''
With this Yellow-Wing once more plunged his bill into the ant hill and licked up a dozen ants who had come rushing out to see what was going on .
And so once more the curiosity of Peter Rabbit was satisfied , and he had learned something .
V WHERE LITTLE CHIEF LEARNED TO MAKE HAY No one in all the Great World thinks more of the present and less of the future than does careless , happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit .
Everybody who knows Peter at all knows that Peter does n't waste any time worrying over what may happen in a day that may never be .
So Peter is n't thrifty as are Happy Jack Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Whitefoot the Wood Mouse and Paddy the Beaver and Striped Chipmunk .
`` I 've got enough to eat today , and enough is enough , so what is the use of working when I do n't have to ? ''
says Peter .
`` I do n't believe in working today so that I wo n't have to work tomorrow , because when tomorrow comes there may be no need of working , and then I would feel that I had wasted all this good time today . ''
No , Peter is n't the least bit thrifty .
It is the same way with Peter 's big cousin , Jumper the Hare .
The truth is the whole family is happy-go-lucky .
Happy Jack Squirrel says that every blessed one of them is shiftless .
It does look that way .
It is a pity that Peter and Jumper never have learned a lesson from Little Chief Hare , who is commonly supposed to be a relative of theirs , although , as a matter of fact , he is neither a Hare nor a Rabbit , but is a Pika , which is another family altogether .
He is also called a Coney and sometimes the Calling Hare .
But if you want sure-enough proof that he is neither a Rabbit nor a Hare , just watch him , if you are lucky enough to have a chance , cut and dry and store away a great pile of hay for winter use .
No true member of Peter 's family ever would think of doing such a thing as that , more is the pity .
Peter never has seen Little Chief , because Little Chief lives high up on a mountain of the Far West among the rocks where Peter would never go , even if he could , but he has heard all about him .
Old Man Coyote told him all about him , and he got the story from his grandfather , who got it from his grandfather , who had one time visited the great mountain where Little Chief 's ever-so-great-grandfather lived in the very place where Little Chief lives now .
Old Man Coyote had chased Peter into the dear Old Briar-patch one cold winter day , and as he peered through the brambles at Peter he noticed that Peter was very thin , very thin indeed .
Old Man Coyote grinned .
`` I 'm just as well pleased not to have caught you this time , Peter , '' said he .
`` You would n't make much of a dinner just now .
When I dine I want something more than skin and bones .
It must be that you are having as hard work as I am to get a living these days . ''
`` I am , '' replied Peter .
`` With all this snow and ice on the ground , there is nothing to eat but bark and such tender twigs as I can reach , and they are not very filling .
But they 'll keep me alive until better times come , and then perhaps I 'll get fat enough to suit you . ''
It was Peter 's turn to grin .
Old Man Coyote grinned back good-naturedly .
`` I should think , Peter , '' said he , `` that when there is so much sweet grass and clover in the summer , you would make some of it into hay and store it away for winter , as Little Chief Hare does .
There 's the thrifty little hay-maker for you ! ''
`` Who is Little Chief , and where did he learn to make hay ? ''
demanded Peter , his ears standing straight up with curiosity .
Old Man Coyote likes to tell a story once in a while , and having nothing else to do just then , he sat down just outside the dear Old Briar-patch and told Peter all about Little Chief and his hay-making .
`` Of course , '' said he , `` Little Chief 's father taught him how to make hay , and his father 's father taught him , and so on way back to the days when the world was young and Old Mother Nature made the first Pika or Coney , whichever you please to call him , and set him free on a great mountain to prove whether he was worthy to live or was so helpless that there was no place for him in the Great World .
Now Mr. Pika , who was promptly called Little Chief , no one remembers now just why , was exactly like Little Chief of today .
He was just about a fourth as big as you , Peter .
In fact , he looked a lot like one of your babies , excepting his legs and his ears .
His legs were short and rather weak , and his ears were short and rounded .
He was very gentle and timid .
He had neither the kind of teeth and claws for fighting nor long legs for running away , and it did seem as if Little Chief 's chances of a long life and a happy one were very slim indeed , especially as it happened that he was set free to shift for himself just at the beginning of the hard times , when the big and strong had begun to hunt the small and weak .
`` For a while Little Chief had a hard time of it and so many narrow escapes that his heart was in his mouth most of the time .
In trying to keep out of the way of his enemies he kept climbing higher and higher up the mountain , for the higher he got the fewer enemies he found .
At last he came to a big rock-slide above where the trees grew , and where there was nothing but broken stone and big rocks .
The sun lay there very warm , and Little Chief crept out among the stones to take a sun-bath ; as he squatted there it would have taken keen eyes indeed to tell him from a stone himself , though he did n't know this .
`` After he had had a good rest , and jolly Mr. Sun had moved so that Little Chief was no longer in the warm rays , Little Chief decided to look about a little .
It did n't take him long to discover that there were wonderful little winding galleries and hiding-places down among the stones .
These led to little cracks and caves deep down in the mountain side .
Little Chief was tickled almost to death . ''
` This is the place for me ! '
he cried .
` No one ever will think to look for me up here , and if they should they could n't find me , for no one , not even King Bear , could pull away these stones fast enough to catch me .
All day long I can enjoy the sun , and at night I can sleep in perfect safety in one of these little caves . '
`` So Little Chief made his home in the rock-slide high up on the mountain and was happy , for it was just as he thought it would be -- no one thought of looking in that bare place for him .
For food he ate the pea vines and grasses and other green things that grew just at the edge of the rock-slide and was perfectly happy .
One day he decided he would take some of his dinner into his little cave and eat it there .
So he cut a little bundle of pea vine and other green things .
He left his little bundle on a flat rock in the sun while he went to look for something else and then forgot all about it .
It did n't enter his head again until a few days later he happened along by that flat rock and discovered that little bundle .
The pea vines and grasses were quite dry , just like the hay Farmer Brown 's boy helps his father store away in the barn every summer . '' '
I guess I do n't want to eat that , ' said Little Chief , ` but it will make me a very nice bed . '
So he carried it home and made a bed of it .
There was n't quite enough , so the next day he cut some more and carried it home at once .
But this , being green , soon soured and smelled so badly that he was forced to take it out and throw it away .
That set him to thinking .
Why was the first he had brought in so dry and sweet and pleasant ?
Why did n't it spoil as the other had done ?
He cut some more and spread it out on the big flat rock and once again he forgot .
When he remembered and went to look at it two or three days later , he found it just like the first , dry and sweet and very pleasant to smell .
This he took home to add to his bed .
Then he took home some more that was green , and this spoiled just as the other had done .
`` Little Chief was puzzling over this as he squatted on a rock taking a sun-bath .
The sun was very warm and comforting .
After a while the rock on which he sat grew almost hot .
Little Chief had brought along a couple of pieces of pea vine on which to lunch , but not being hungry he left them beside him on the rock .
By and by he happened to glance at them .
They had wilted and already they were beginning to dry .
An idea popped into his funny little head . ''
` It 's the sun that does it ! '
he cried .
`` Up he jumped and scampered away to cut some more and spread it out on the rocks .
Then he discovered that the pea vine which he spread in the sun dried as he wanted it to , while any that happened to be left in the shadow of a rock did n't dry so well .
He had learned how to make hay .
He was the first hay-maker in the Great World .
He soon had more than enough for a bed , but he kept on making hay and storing it away just for fun .
Then came cold weather and all the green things died .
There was no food for Little Chief .
He hunted and hunted , but there was nothing .
Then because he was so hungry he began to nibble at his hay .
It tasted good , very good indeed .
It tasted almost as good as the fresh green things .
Little Chief 's heart gave a great leap .
He had food in plenty !
He had nothing to worry about , for his hay would last him until the green things came again , as come they would , he felt sure .
`` And so it proved .
And that is how Little Chief the Pika learned to make hay while the sun shone in the days of plenty .
He taught his children and they taught their children , and Little Chief of today does it just as his great-great-ever-so-great-grand-daddy did .
I do n't see why you do n't do the same thing , Peter .
You would make me a great deal finer dinner if you did . ''
`` Perhaps that is the reason I do n't , '' replied Peter with a grin .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Little Chief 's father taught him how to make hay . ''
Page 67 .
-RSB- VI WHERE GLUTTON THE WOLVERINE GOT HIS NAME Glutton the Wolverine is a dweller in the depths of the Great Forests of the Far North , and it is doubtful if Peter Rabbit would ever have known that there is such a person but for his acquaintance with Honker the Goose , who spends his summers in the Far North , but each spring and fall stops over for a day or two in a little pond in the Green Forest , a pond Peter often visits .
This acquaintance with Honker and Peter 's everlasting curiosity have resulted in many strange stories .
At least they have seemed strange to Peter because they have been about furred and feathered people whom Peter has never seen .
And one of the strangest of these is the story of how Glutton the Wolverine got his name .
Of course you know what a glutton is .
It is one who is very , very , very greedy and eats and eats as if eating were the only thing in life worth while .
It is one who is all the time thinking of his stomach .
No one likes to be called a glutton .
So when Honker the Goose happened to mention Glutton , it caused Peter to prick up his ears at once .
`` Who 's a glutton ? ''
he demanded .
`` I did n't say any one was a glutton , '' replied Honker .
`` I was speaking of Glutton the Wolverine who lives in the Great Forests of the Far North , and whom everybody hates . ''
`` Is Glutton his name ? ''
asked Peter , wrinkling his brows in perplexity , for it seemed a very queer name for any one .
`` Certainly , '' replied Honker .
`` Certainly that is his name , and a very good name for him it is .
But then of course it is because he is a glutton that he is named Glutton .
Rather I should say that is the reason the first Wolverine was named Glutton .
The name has been handed down ever since , and it fits Mr. Wolverine of today quite as well as ever it did his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather . ''
`` Tell me about it , '' Peter begged .
`` Please tell me about it . ''
`` Tell you about what ? ''
asked Honker , pretending not to understand .
`` About how the first Wolverine got the name of Glutton , '' replied Peter promptly .
`` There must have been a very good reason , and if there was a very good reason , there must be a story .
Please , Honker , tell me all about it . ''
Honker swam a little way out from shore , and with head held high and very still , he looked and listened and listened and looked until he was quite certain that no danger lurked near .
Then he swam back to where Peter was sitting on the bank .
`` Peter , '' said he , `` I never in all my born days have seen such a fellow for questions as you are .
If I lived about here , I think I should swim away every time I saw you coming .
But as I only stop here for a day or two twice a year , I guess I can stand it .
Besides , you really ought to know something about some of the people who live in the Great Forest .
It is shameful , Peter , that you should be so ignorant .
And so if you will promise not to ask for another story while I am here , I will tell you about Glutton the Wolverine . ''
Of course Peter promised .
He wanted that story so much that he would have promised anything .
So Honker told the story , and here it is just as Peter heard it .
`` Once upon a time long , long , long ago , the first Wolverine was sent out to find a place for himself in the Great World just as every one else had been sent out .
Old Mother Nature had told him that he was related to Mr. Weasel and Mr. Mink and Mr. Fisher and Mr. Skunk , but no one would have guessed it just to look at him .
In fact , some of his new neighbors were inclined to think that he was related to Old King Bear .
Certainly he looked more like King Bear than he did like little Mr. Weasel .
But for his bushy tail he would have looked still more like a member of the Bear family .
He was clumsy-looking .
He was rather slow moving , but he was strong , very strong for his size .
And he had a mean disposition .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Wolverine had a mean disposition .
He had such a mean disposition that he would snarl at his own reflection in a pool of water .
`` Now you know as well as I do that no one with a mean disposition has any friends .
It was so with Mr. Wolverine .
When his neighbors found out what a mean disposition he had , they let him severely alone .
They would go out of their way to avoid meeting him .
This made his disposition all the meaner .
He did n't really care because his neighbors would have nothing to do with him .
No , he did n't really care , for the simple reason that he did n't want anything to do with them .
But just the same it made him angry to have them show that they did n't want to have anything to do with him .
Every time he would see one of them turn aside to avoid meeting him , he would snarl under his breath , and his eyes would glow with anger ; he would resolve to get even .
`` Being slow in his movements because of his stout build , he early realized that he must make nimble wits make up for the lack of nimble legs .
He also learned very early in life that patience is a virtue few possess , and that patience and nimble wits will accomplish almost anything .
So , living alone in the Great Forest , he practised patience until no one in all the Great World could be more patient than he .
No one knew this because , you see , everybody kept away from him .
And all the time he was practising patience , he was studying and studying the other people of the Great Forest , both large and small , learning all their habits , how they lived , where they lived , what they ate , and all about them . ''
` One never knows when such knowledge may be useful , ' he would say to himself .
` The more I know about other people and the less they know about me the better . '
`` So Mr. Wolverine kept out of sight as much as possible , and none knew how he lived or where he lived or anything about him save that he had a mean disposition .
Patiently he watched the other people , especially those of nimble wits who lived largely by their cunning and cleverness -- Mr. Fox , Mr. Coyote , Mr. Lynx and his own cousins , Mr. Mink and Mr. Weasel .
From each one he learned something , and at last he was more cunning and more clever than any of them or even than all of them , for that matter .
`` Living alone as he did , and having a mean disposition , he grew more and more sullen and savage until those who at first had avoided him simply because of his mean disposition now kept out of his way through fear , for his claws were long and his strength was great and his teeth were sharp .
It did n't take him long to discover that there were few who did not fear him , and he cunningly contrived to increase this fear , for he had a feeling that the time might come when it would be of use to him .
`` The time did come .
As you know , there came a time when food was scarce , and everybody , or almost everybody , had hard work to get enough to keep alive .
Mr. Wolverine did n't .
The fact is , Mr. Wolverine lived very well indeed .
He simply reaped the reward of his patience in learning all about the ways of his neighbors , of his nimble wits and of the fear which he inspired .
Instead of hunting for food himself , he depended on his neighbors to hunt for him .
They did n't know they were hunting for him , but somehow whenever one of them had secured a good meal , Mr. Wolverine was almost sure to happen along .
A growl from him was enough , and that meal was left in his possession .
`` Knowing how scarce food was and the uncertainty of when he would get the next meal , Mr. Wolverine always made it a point on these occasions to stuff himself until it was a wonder his skin did n't burst .
If there was more than he could eat , he would take a nap right there , and because of fear of him the rightful owner of the food would not dare take what was left .
When he awoke Mr. Wolverine would finish what remained .
`` Those who secured more food than they could eat and tried to store away the rest found that no matter how cunningly they chose a hiding-place for it and covered their tracks , Mr. Wolverine was sure to find it .
In fact , he made a business of robbing storehouses , and the habit of greediness became so strong that he would stuff himself at one storehouse and immediately start for another .
When it did happen that he could n't eat all he found and yet did n't want to stay until he could finish it , he would tear to bits all that remained and scatter it all about .
You know I told you he had a mean disposition .
`` Even when good times returned and there was no possible excuse for such greed , Mr. Wolverine continued to stuff himself until it seemed that instead of eating in order to live , as the rest of us do , he lived in order to eat .
Of course it was n't long before some one called him a glutton , and presently he was named Glutton , and no one called him anything else .
Glutton by name and a glutton in habit he remained as long as he lived .
Both name and habits he handed down to his children and they to their children .
So it is that today there is no more cunning thief , no greedier rascal , and no one with a meaner disposition in all the Great Woods of the Far North than Glutton the Wolverine . ''
`` Queer how a habit will stick , is n't it ? ''
said Peter thoughtfully .
`` Particularly a bad habit , '' added Honker .
VII WHERE OLD MRS. ` GATOR MADE THE FIRST INCUBATOR Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Quack the Mallard Duck are great friends .
They have been great friends ever since Peter tried to help Mrs. Quack when she and Mr. Quack had spent a whole summer on a little pond hidden deep in the Green Forest because Mr. Quack had a broken wing and so he and Mrs. Quack simply could n't keep on to their home in the Far North for which they had started .
During that long summer Peter had become very well acquainted with them .
In fact he visited them very often , for as you know , Peter is simply brimming over with curiosity , and there were wonderful things which Mr. and Mrs. Quack could tell him , for they are great travelers .
Now once , as Mrs. Quack was telling Peter about the far-away Southland where she and Mr. Quack and many other birds spend each winter , she mentioned Old Ally the ` Gator .
People who live where he does call him just ` Gator , but you and I would call him Alligator .
At the mention of Old Ally , all Peter 's curiosity was awakened , for Mrs. Quack had said that foolish young ducks sometimes mistook him for an old log floating in the water and did n't find out the difference until his great mouth flew open and he swallowed them whole .
At that Peter 's eyes threatened to pop right out of his head and every time he visited that little pond he pestered Mrs. Quack with questions about Old Ally the ` Gator and Mrs. ` Gator .
It seemed as if he could n't think of anything else .
And when Mrs. Quack just happened to mention that little ` Gators are hatched from eggs just as her own children are , it was almost too much for Peter to believe .
`` What ? ''
he squealed , hopping up and down in excitement .
`` Do you mean to tell me that anything as big as Old Ally , big enough to swallow you whole , can come from an egg ?
I do n't believe it !
Besides , only birds lay eggs . ''
`` Quack , quack , quack , quack , quack , quack , quack , Peter , you must take that back ! ''
cried Mrs. Quack .
`` Why must I take it back ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` Because as usual you 've let your tongue run loose , and that is a bad habit , Peter .
It certainly is a bad habit .
How about the Snake family ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
said Peter , looking very foolish .
`` I forgot all about the Snakes .
They do lay eggs . ''
`` And how about Spotty the Turtle ?
Did n't he come from an egg ? ''
persisted Mrs. Quack .
Peter looked more foolish than before , if that were possible .
`` Y-e-s , '' he replied slowly and reluctantly .
`` Then do n't be so quick to doubt a thing just because you 've never seen it , '' retorted Mrs. Quack .
`` I 've seen Mrs. ` Gator build her nest more than once , and I 've seen her eggs , and I 've seen the baby ` Gators ; and what is more , I 'm not in the habit of telling things that I do n't know are so . ''
`` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Quack . ''
Peter was very humble .
`` I do indeed .
Please forgive me .
Is -- is Mrs. ` Gator 's nest at all like yours ? ''
Peter seemed so truly sorry for having doubted her that Mrs. Quack recovered her good nature at once .
`` No , '' said she , `` it is n't .
If I had n't seen her make it , I would n't have known it was a nest .
You see , one spring I got hurt so that I could n't take my usual long journey to the Far North and had to spend the summer way down in the Southland where I always lived in the winter , and that is how I happened to learn about Mrs. ` Gator 's nest and eggs and a lot of other things .
Mrs. ` Gator is lazy , but she is smart .
She 's smart enough to make Mr. Sun do her work .
What do you think of that ? ''
Right away Peter was all excitement .
You see , that sounded as if there might be a story behind it .
`` I never have heard of such a thing ! ''
he cried .
`` How did she learn to do such a smart thing as that ?
Of course I do n't for a minute believe that she herself discovered a way to get Mr. Sun to work for her .
Probably it was her ever-so-great-grandmother who first did it .
Is n't that so , Mrs. Quack ? ''
Mrs. Quack nodded .
`` You 've guessed it , Peter , '' said she .
`` It all happened way , way back in the days when the world was young . ''
`` Tell me about it !
Please , please tell me about it , Mrs. Quack , and the first chance I get , I 'll do something for you , '' begged Peter .
Mrs. Quack carefully went over all her feathers to see that every one was in place , for she is very particular about how she looks .
When she was quite satisfied , she turned to Peter , fidgeting on the bank .
`` Way back in the days when the world was young , '' said she , `` Old Mother Nature made the first Alligators before she made the first birds , or the first animals , so Old Ally and Mrs. ` Gator , who live way down south now , belong to a very old family and are proud of it .
In the beginning of things there was very little dry land , as you may have heard , so old Mr. and Mrs. ` Gator , who of course were not old then , were made to live in the water with the fish .
Old Mother Nature was experimenting then .
She was planning to make a great deal more land , and she wanted living creatures on it , so she gave the ` Gators legs and feet instead of fins , and lungs to breathe air instead of gills for breathing in the water as fish do .
Then , having many other things to attend to , she told them they would have to take care of themselves , and went about her business .
`` It did n't take Mr. and Mrs. ` Gator long to discover that their legs were not of much use in the water , for they used their powerful tails for swimming .
Then one day Mrs. ` Gator crawled out on land and right away discovered what those legs were for .
She could go on dry land while fishes could not .
It did n't take her long to find out that nothing was quite so fine as a sun-bath , as she lay stretched out on the bank , so she and Mr. ` Gator spent most of their time on sunny days taking sun-baths .
`` One day Old Mother Nature came along and whispered a wonderful secret to Mrs. ` Gator . '
I am going to give you some eggs , ' whispered Old Mother Nature , ` some eggs of your very own , and if you watch over them and keep them warm , out of each one a baby ` Gator will some day creep .
But if you let those eggs get cold , there will be no babies .
Do n't forget that you must keep them warm . '
`` Old Mother Nature was as good as her word .
She gave Mrs. ` Gator twenty beautiful white eggs , and Mrs. ` Gator was perfectly happy .
Those eggs were the most precious things in all the Great World .
It seemed as if she never would grow tired of looking at them and admiring them and of dreaming of the day when her babies should come out of them .
It was very pleasant to lie there in the sun and dream of the babies to come from those wonderful eggs .
Suddenly , right into the midst of those pleasant dreams , broke the memory of what Old Mother Nature had said about keeping those eggs warm .
All in a twinkling happiness was turned to worry . ''
` What can I do ?
What can I do ? '
Mrs. ` Gator kept saying over and over .
` However can I keep them warm when Mr. Sun goes to bed at night ?
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
My beautiful eggs never , never will turn to darling babies !
What can I do ? '
`` All this time Mr. ` Gator was a great deal more interested in making himself comfortable than he was in those eggs .
He had picked out a place where all day long Mr. Sun poured down his warmest rays , and he had dug a place to sprawl out in comfortably .
The sand he had thrown in a pile at one side .
When Mrs. ` Gator went to consult Mr. ` Gator about those precious eggs and her worries when the cool of evening had come , she happened to put one foot in that loose pile of sand , and she found that while the sand on the outside was already cool , that down inside the pile was still warm .
A clever idea came to her like a flash .
`` First she sent Mr. ` Gator into the water to get his supper .
Then she scooped a hole in that pile of warm sand , and in it she put her precious eggs and carefully covered them up with sand .
When this was done she stretched out close by to keep watch and see that nothing disturbed those treasures .
That was a very anxious night for Mrs. ` Gator .
The sand on which she lay grew very cool .
When at last day came and Mr. Sun once more began to shine , she opened that pile of sand and great was her joy to find that inside it was still warm .
When Mr. ` Gator came crawling out of the water to spend the day in that comfortable bed he had dug , she chased him away and was so cross that he went off grumbling and dug another bed .
Mrs. ` Gator waited until Mr. Sun had made the sand very warm indeed , and then she made a great mound of it , and in the middle of it were her precious eggs .
Night and day she kept guard , and all the time she worried lest those eggs should not be warm enough .
Then one day twenty baby ` Gators dug their way out of that mound of sand .
Yes , Sir , they did .
`` All this happened long , long ago when the world was young , and ever since then ` Gators have lived only way down south , where it is very warm and where Mr. Sun will hatch their eggs for them .
And today it is done just as I 've told you , for I 've seen with my own eyes Mrs. ` Gator build her nest , cover her eggs , and then lie around while Mr. Sun did the work for her .
What do you think of that ? ''
`` I think that if you had n't told me that you had seen it with your own eyes , Mrs. Quack , I should think it a fairy story , '' replied Peter .
VIII WHERE MR. QUACK GOT HIS WEBBED FEET Twice every year , in the early spring and in the late fall , Peter Rabbit watches the Smiling Pool with a great deal of eagerness .
Can you guess why ?
It is because two very good friends of Peter 's are in the habit of stopping there for a few days for rest and refreshment before continuing the long journey which they are obliged to make .
They are Mr. and Mrs. Quack , the Mallard Ducks .
Peter is very fond of them , and when the time for their arrival draws near , Peter watches for them with a great deal of anxiety .
You see they have told him something of the terrible dangers which they always encounter on these long journeys , and so Peter is always afraid that something terrible may have happened to them , and it is a great relief when he finds them swimming about in the Smiling Pool .
One reason Peter is so fond of Mr. and Mrs. Quack is because they always have a story for him .
Sometimes it is a story of adventure , a tale of terrible danger and narrow escapes .
Sometimes it is about their home in the far Northland , and again it is about the wonderful Southland where they spend the winter .
But the story that Peter likes best is the one about where and how the Quack family got their funny , webbed feet .
Mr. Quack does n't think those feet funny at all , but Peter does .
He never grows tired of watching Mr. and Mrs. Quack use them , because , you know , they are used so differently from other feet .
And always he goes back to the dear Old Briar-patch with renewed admiration for the wisdom of Old Mother Nature .
Peter noticed those feet the first time he met Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
He could n't help but notice them .
It happened that Mr. and Mrs. Quack were out on the bank of the Smiling Pool as Peter came hurrying over in his usual way , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
They heard him coming and not knowing at first who it was they at once started for the water .
Peter never will forget the funny way in which they waddled .
He never had seen anybody quite so awkward .
But when they reached the water he forgot to laugh .
He simply stared open-mouthed in astonishment .
You see there they were as graceful as they had been awkward on land .
Afterward , when Peter had become acquainted with them and they were the best of friends , he ventured to speak of their queer feet .
`` Do you know , '' said he , `` you have the most interesting feet of anybody I know of .
They are so broad that the first time I saw them I could n't believe my own eyes .
I did n't suppose anybody had such broad feet .
I suppose there is some special reason why they are so broad and why your legs are so short .
Do you know how Mother Nature happened to give you feet so different from the feet of other birds , Mr. Quack ? ''
Mr. Quack chuckled .
`` I tell you what it is , Peter , '' said he , `` if you 'll tell me why it is you have such long hind legs and such a funny short tail , I 'll tell you why it is that Mrs. Quack and I have such broad feet , though I must confess that I do n't see anything odd about them . ''
Peter agreed at once .
He told Mr. and Mrs. Quack all about what happened to his grandfather a thousand times removed , the very first Rabbit , way back when the world was young , and how ever since then all Rabbits have had long hind legs and short tails .
When he had finished Mr. Quack thoughtfully scratched his handsome green head , looked at his reflection in the Smiling Pool to make sure that he was looking his very best , looked behind to see that the feathers in the tip of his tail had the proper curl , and then gazed off over the Green Meadows with a far-away look in his eyes as if he were looking way back to the time he was to tell about .
At last , just as Peter Rabbit was beginning to lose patience Mr. Quack began .
`` It must be , Peter , '' said he , `` that my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather lived just about the same time as your great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , way back in the days when the world was young .
Perhaps they knew each other .
Perhaps they were acquainted just as you and I are now .
Anyway , according to what has been handed down in the family , Grandfather Quack was very much such a looking fellow as I am now , except in the matter of his bill and feet .
His bill was not broad like mine but more like the bills of other birds , and his feet were like the feet of Mr. Grouse and Bob White .
They were made for scratching , and there was nothing between the toes .
You see , Old Mother Nature was experimenting .
She made everybody a little different from everybody else and then started them forth in the Great World to shift for themselves and to find out what they really needed that they had n't got .
`` Old Mr. Quack , my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , soon discovered one thing , and that was that his legs were too short for him to get around very fast .
When he walked , everybody laughed at him .
When he tried to run , they laughed harder than ever .
He did n't mind this so very much , though he did a little .
Nobody likes to be laughed at , especially when it is because of something they can not help .
But what he did mind was the fact that his neighbors could run about so much faster than he that they got all the best of the food , and quite often he went hungry .
`` One day he happened to be sitting on the bank of the Smiling Pool , thinking the matter over and wondering what he had best do , when Mr. Fox stole up behind him and startled him so that he lost his balance and tumbled down the bank into the water .
This frightened him more than ever , and he flapped about and squawked and squawked and flapped until Mr. Fox nearly split his sides laughing at him .
And when he was quite out of breath , Mr. Quack discovered that he was making all this fuss for nothing .
He did n't sink , but floated on the water , and what was more the water did n't get under his feathers at all .
When he tried to walk , of course he could n't , and he had a funny feeling because his feet did n't touch anything and felt so very useless .
But he kept moving them back and forth , and pretty soon he discovered that he moved ahead .
Of course he moved very slowly , because his feet were not made for use in the water , but he moved , and that was enough .
He knew then that he could get back to land .
Then he tried his wings and he found that he could rise into the air from the water quite as easily as from the land .
Right then and there all fear of the water left him .
In fact , he liked it .
`` Little by little , Grandfather Quack began to understand that he had made a great discovery .
He had discovered the safest place in all the Great World for him .
Out on the water he was safe from Mr. Fox and Mr. Wolf and all the other four-footed hunters .
So he took to spending most of his time on the water or near it .
When he wanted a nap , he would hide among the rushes that grew in the water .
` If only I did n't have to leave the water for food ! '
sighed Grandfather Quack .
` If only I could find food here , I would never leave the water . '
`` At the time he was squatting at the very edge of the Smiling Pool .
Presently he noticed a funny water bug crawling on the bottom where the water was only an inch or two deep . '
I wonder if that fellow is good to eat , ' thought he , and almost without thinking he plunged his head under water and caught the bug .
It was good .
Grandfather Quack at once started to look for more , and while doing this he discovered that there were a great many seeds from the rushes scattered about in the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool , and that these also were good to eat .
Then quite by accident he got hold of a tender root in the mud and found that this was especially good .
`` This was enough for Grandfather Quack .
He had found that he could get plenty to eat without leaving the Smiling Pool .
Moreover , he did n't have to share it with anybody , because there was no one else who thought of looking for food there .
He knew when he was well off .
So Grandfather Quack grew fat and was happy .
The only things that bothered him were the slowness with which he had to pick up seeds , one at a time , and the slowness with which he could paddle about , for you could n't really call it swimming .
But in spite of these things he was happy and made the best of his lot .
`` One day he tugged and tugged at a root with his head under water .
When at last he had to bring his head up for a breath , whom should he discover but Old Mother Nature watching him from the opposite bank .
` Come over here , Mr. Quack , and tell me all about it , ' she commanded .
`` Grandfather Quack started across the Smiling Pool , but because his feet were not made for swimming , it took him a long time to get there .
Old Mother Nature smiled as she watched him .
` You look better on the water than you do on land , ' said she .
` In fact , I believe that is just where you belong .
Now tell me how you happened to take to the water . '
`` Grandfather Quack told her the whole story and how Old Mother Nature did laugh when he described how frightened he was when he fell in that time .
Suddenly she reached out and caught him by the bill . '
I do n't think much of that bill for poking about in the mud , ' said she .
` How will this do ? '
She let go , and Grandfather Quack found he had a broad bill just suited for getting food out of the mud .
Then Old Mother Nature bade him hold forth first one foot and then the other .
Between the toes she stretched a tough skin clear to the toe nails .
` Now let me see you swim , ' said she .
`` Grandfather Quack tried .
He kicked one foot and then the other , and to his great joy he shot along swiftly .
When he drew his feet back for another kick his toes closed together , and so his feet came through the water easily .
But when he kicked back they were wide spread , and the skin between them pushed against the water , and drove him ahead .
It was wonderful !
It was splendid !
He hurried over to Old Mother Nature , and with tears of joy in his eyes he thanked her .
And from that day to this members of my family have had the same broad bills and webbed feet , and have lived on the water , '' concluded Mr. Quack .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter noticed those feet the first time he met Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
Page 111 .
-RSB- IX WHERE THUNDERFOOT THE BISON GOT HIS HUMP Thunderfoot the Bison , often called Buffalo , is not a handsome fellow , as you very well know if you have seen him or a picture of him .
His head is carried low , very near the ground , and on his shoulders is a great hump .
No , you would n't call him handsome .
You would hardly call him good-looking even .
In fact , you would , I suspect , call him homely .
Certainly there is nothing about him to suggest pride .
Yet according to the story Digger the Badger once told Peter Rabbit , pride and nothing less was the cause of that big hump which makes Thunderfoot appear so clumsy and homely .
Peter Rabbit , as you know , is very fond of stories .
In this respect he is very like some other folks I know .
Anyway , he never misses a chance for a story if he can help it .
He had discovered that Digger the Badger and Old Man Coyote , both of whom had come to the Green Meadows from the Far West , were full of stories about their neighbors of the distant prairies , folk whom Peter never had seen .
Sometimes when he had nothing else to do , Old Man Coyote would come over to the dear Old Briar-patch and tell stories to Peter , who sat safe behind the brambles .
Perhaps Old Man Coyote hoped that Peter would become so interested that he would forget and come out of the dear Old Briar-patch .
But Peter never did .
But most of the stories of the people of the Far West Peter got from Digger the Badger because , you see , he was n't afraid to go beg for them .
He knew that Digger could n't catch him if he wanted to , and so when Grandfather Frog had n't a story for him , Peter would go tease Digger for one .
It was thus that he heard about Thunderfoot the Bison and where he got that great hump of his .
`` I do n't suppose , '' said Peter , `` that there are any very big people out there on those prairies where you used to live any more than there are here on the Green Meadows .
All the very big people seem to prefer to live in the Green Forest . ''
`` It is that way now , I must admit , '' said Digger the Badger , `` but it was n't so in the old days , in the good old days when there were no terrible guns , and Thunderfoot and his followers shook the ground with their feet . ''
Digger shook his head sadly .
Instantly Peter pricked up his ears .
`` Who was Thunderfoot ? ''
he demanded .
Digger looked at Peter with such a look of pity for Peter 's ignorance that Peter felt almost ashamed .
`` He does n't live here and never did , so far as I have heard , so how should I know anything about him ? ''
he added a wee bit defiantly .
`` If that 's the case , '' replied Digger , `` it is time you learned about the Lord of the Prairies . ''
`` But I want to know about Thunderfoot first ! ''
cried Peter .
`` You can tell me about the Lord of the Prairies another time . ''
`` Were you born stupid or have you grown so ? ''
asked Digger impatiently .
Then without waiting for an answer he added : `` Thunderfoot was the Lord of the Prairies .
He ruled over the Wide Prairies just as Old King Bear ruled in the Green Forest .
He ruled by might .
He ruled because no one dared deny him the right to rule .
He ruled because of his great size and his great strength .
And all who lived on the Wide Prairies looked up to him and admired him and bowed before him and paid him the utmost respect .
When he and his followers ran the earth shook , and the noise was like thunder , and everybody hastened to get out of the way and to warn his neighbors , crying : ` Here comes my Lord of the Prairies !
Make way !
Make way ! '
And truly Thunderfoot and his followers were a magnificent sight , so my great-grandfather told me , and he had it from his great-grandfather , who was told so by his great-grandfather , who saw it all with his own eyes .
But that was in the days before Thunderfoot 's head was brought low , and he was given the great hump which none of his descendants have ever been able to get rid of . ''
`` Tell me about that hump and where my Lord of the Prairies , Thunderfoot the Bison , got it ! ''
begged Peter , with shining eyes .
That there was a story he had n't the least doubt .
Digger the Badger flattened himself out on the ground , and into his eyes crept a dreamy , far-away look as if he were seeing things a great , great way off .
`` Way back In the days when the world was young , so my great-grandfather said , '' he began , `` Thunderfoot , the first Bison , was given the Wide Prairies for a kingdom by Old Mother Nature and strode forth to take possession .
Big was he , the biggest of all living creatures thereabouts .
Strong was he with a strength none cared to test .
And he was handsome .
He held his head proudly .
All who lived on the Wide Prairies admired him with a great admiration and hastened to pay homage to him .
`` For a long time he ruled wisely .
All the other people brought their disputes to him to be settled , and so wisely did he decide them that the fame of his wisdom spread even beyond the Wide Prairies and was talked about in the Green Forest .
The humblest of his subjects could come to him freely and be sure of a hearing and that justice would be done .
Big as he was and mighty as he was , he took the greatest care never to forget the rights of others .
`` But there came a time when flattery turned his head , as the saying is .
Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox were the chief flatterers , and in all the Great World there were no smoother tongues than theirs .
They never lost an opportunity to tell him how handsome he was , and how mighty he was , and how they admired him and looked up to him , and how unequaled was his wisdom .
You see , being themselves dishonest and mischief-makers , they frequently were in trouble with their neighbors and would have to appear before Thunderfoot for judgment .
Even when it went against them they praised the wisdom of it , admitting that they were in the wrong and begging forgiveness , all of which was very flattering to Thunderfoot .
`` Little by little , without knowing it , he yielded to the flattery of Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox .
He liked to hear the pleasant things they said .
Little by little it became easier to find them in the right than in the wrong when they were accused of wronging their neighbors .
Of course they flattered him still more .
They hinted to him that it was beneath the dignity of one so big and strong and handsome to take notice of the very small and humble people like Mr. Meadow Mouse and Mr. Toad and Mr. Meadow Lark and others of his subjects .
`` Gradually the little people of the Wide Prairies began to notice a change in Thunderfoot .
He became proud and vain .
He openly boasted of his strength and fine appearance .
When he met them he passed them haughtily , not seeing them at all , or at least appearing not to .
No longer did he regard the rights of others .
No longer did he watch out not to crush the nest of Mrs. Meadow Lark or to step on the babies of Danny Meadow Mouse .
It came about that when the thunder of his feet was heard , those with homes on the ground shivered with fright and hoped that my Lord of the Prairies would not come their way .
`` One day , as he raced over the Wide Prairies for no reason but that he felt like running , Mr. Meadow Lark flew to meet him .
Mr. Meadow Lark was in great distress .
` Turn aside , my Lord ! '
he begged .
` Turn aside , my Lord of the Prairies , for before you lies my nest with four precious eggs , and I fear you will step on them ! '
`` Thunderfoot the Bison , Lord of the Wide Prairies , tossed his head .
` If you will build your nest where it can be trodden on , you ca n't expect me to look out for it , ' said he .
` If anything so unfortunate happens to it , it is your own fault , and you must n't blame me . '
And he neither looked down to see where he was putting his feet nor turned aside so much as an inch .
On he galloped , and presently with a cry of fright out from beneath his feet flew Mrs. Meadow Lark , and at the very next step he trod on the little nest in the grass and crushed the four eggs .
`` Mr. Coyote , who was racing beside him on one side and saw what had happened , grinned .
Mr. Fox , who was racing beside him on the other side and saw what had happened , grinned .
Seeing them grin , Thunderfoot himself grinned .
Thus grinning heartlessly , they continued to run until they came to a place where Mother Nature walked among the flowers of the Wide Prairies .
Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox , whose heads were not held so high , saw her in time to put their tails between their legs and slink away .
Thunderfoot , holding his head high , failed to see her until he was so close to her that it was with difficulty he stopped before running her down . ''
` My Lord of the Prairies seems in fine spirits , ' said Mother Nature softly .
` Is all well with my Lord ? '
`` Thunderfoot tossed his head proudly .
` All is well , ' said he . '' '
I am sorry that others can not say as much , ' replied Mother Nature , and all the softness was gone from her voice , and it was sharp . '
I seem to hear the sobs of a broken-hearted little Meadow Lark , ' she continued .
` Little though she be and humble , she is as much to me as is my Lord of the Prairies who has made her suffer . '
`` Stooping swiftly , Mother Nature picked up her staff and with it struck Thunderfoot on the neck , so that his head was brought low , and in fear of another blow he humped his shoulders up .
` Thus shall you be , still big , still strong , but hump-shouldered and carrying your head low in shame , no longer Lord of the Prairies , until such time as you restore to Mrs. Meadow Lark the eggs you destroyed , ' said she , and turned her back on him .
`` It was so .
From that day on , Thunderfoot ceased to rule over the Wide Prairies .
He was hump-shouldered and he carried his head low , looking and looking for the eggs he never could find to restore to Mrs. Meadow Lark .
And though his children and his children 's children became many , there never was one without the hump or who ceased to carry his head low in shame , '' concluded Digger the Badger .
X WHERE LIMBERHEELS GOT HIS LONG TAIL .
Have you ever seen Limberheels the Jumping Mouse when he was in a hurry ?
If you have , very likely the first time you felt very much as Peter Rabbit did when he saw Limberheels for the first time .
He was hopping along across the Green Meadows with nothing much on his mind when from right under his wobbly nose something shot into the air over the tops of the grasses for eight or ten feet and then down and out of sight .
Peter rubbed his eyes .
`` Did I see it , or did n't I ?
And if I did , what was it ? ''
gasped Peter .
A squeaky little laugh answered him .
`` You saw it all right , Peter , but it is n't polite to call any one it .
He would be quite provoked if he had heard you .
That was my cousin , Limberheels , '' replied a voice quite as squeaky as the laugh had been .
Peter turned to see the bright eyes of Danny Meadow Mouse twinkling at him from the entrance to a tiny little path that joined the bigger path in which Peter was sitting .
`` Hello , Danny ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Do you mean to tell me that was a relative of yours ?
Since when have any of your relatives taken to flying ? ''
Danny chuckled .
`` He was n't flying , '' he retorted .
`` He just jumped , that was all . ''
Danny chuckled again , for he knows that Peter considers himself quite a jumper and is inclined to be a bit jealous of any one else who pretends to jump save his cousin , Jumper the Hare .
`` Jumped ! ''
snorted Peter .
`` Jumped !
Do you expect me to believe that any Mouse can jump like that ?
I did n't get a good look at that fellow , but whoever he is I tell you he flew .
Nobody can jump like that . ''
Danny chuckled again .
`` Wait a minute , Peter , '' said he .
He disappeared , and Peter waited .
He waited one minute , two minutes , three minutes , and then suddenly Danny poked his head out from the grass beside the path .
`` Here he is , Peter , '' said he , coming wholly out into the path .
`` Let me introduce my cousin , Limberheels . ''
As he spoke the grass beside him rustled , and out crept some one beside whom Danny Meadow Mouse looked big , clumsy and homely .
One glance was enough to tell Peter that the stranger was a sure-enough member of the Mouse family , but such a member as he never had seen before .
He was trim and slender .
He wore a reddish-brown coat with a white waistcoat .
But the things that made Peter stare very impolitely were his tail and his legs .
His tail was nearly twice as long as his body , slim and tapering , and his hind legs were very long , while his fore legs were short .
It took only one glance to convince Peter that here was a born jumper .
Any one built like that must jump .
`` You two must become acquainted and be friends , '' continued Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Peter is one of my best friends , Limberheels .
He would n't hurt a flea .
I 'm sure that from now on he will be one of your best friends . ''
`` I 'll be happy to , '' said Peter promptly .
`` Danny has been telling me what a wonderful jumper you are .
Would you mind showing me how you jump ?
I guess you jumped right in front of me a few minutes ago , but I was so surprised that I did n't really see you . ''
`` I guess I did , '' replied Limberheels rather timidly .
`` You see , I did n't hear you coming until you were almost on top of me , and then I did n't know who it was so I got away as quickly as I could .
I 'll be ever so glad to have you for a friend and next time I wo n't run away . ''
`` Show him how you can jump , '' interrupted Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` He would n't believe me when I told him that you did n't fly . ''
Limberheels grinned rather sheepishly .
`` Of course I did n't fly , '' said he .
`` No animal can fly but Flitter the Bat .
I just jumped like this . ''
With a tremendous spring from his long hind legs Limberheels leaped , while Peter Rabbit stared , his mouth wide open with astonishment .
He had n't dreamed that any one could jump so far in proportion to his size as this slim , trim little cousin of Danny 's .
Later , after Limberheels had jumped for Peter 's benefit until he was tired and had gone to hunt for a lunch of grass seeds , Peter wanted to know all about Limberheels .
`` Never in my life have I seen such jumping , '' he declared .
`` And never have I seen such a tail .
I thought Whitefoot the Wood Mouse had a fine tail , but it does n't compare with that of Limberheels . ''
`` It is a fine tail , '' replied Danny , whose own tail , as you know , is very short .
`` It is a fine tail , '' he repeated rather wistfully .
`` Would you like to hear where he got it ? ''
`` I know , '' retorted Peter with a grin .
`` He got it from his father , who got it from his father , and so on way back to the days when the world was young . ''
Then , seeing a look of disappointment on Danny 's face , and eager for a story as usual , he added : `` But I would like to know how such a tail as that came in the family . ''
Danny brightened up at once .
`` It 's funny how things come about in this world , '' he began .
`` The great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Limberheels , the first one , you know , was quite an ordinary Mouse when Old Mother Nature made him and started him out to make his way in the Great World .
He was little , one of the smallest of the family , and his tail was short , no longer than mine .
His hind legs were like those of all his relatives .
He ran about just as his relatives did .
He was so small and kept out of sight so much that he did n't even have a name .
There was nothing about him to suggest a name .
`` For a long time he was contented and happy .
Then one day he happened to see Mr. Hare jump .
It seemed to him the most wonderful thing in the world that any one should be able to jump like that .
So he began to spend most of his spare time where he could watch Mr. Hare .
One day Old Mother Nature happened along unseen by him , as he was watching Mr. Hare jump , and she overheard him say very , very wistfully , ` How I wish I could jump like that !
I wish I had long hind legs like Mr. Hare . '
`` Old Mother Nature 's kindly eyes twinkled .
` That 's easily arranged , ' said she .
` If you think long hind legs will be of more use to you than the ones you have , you shall have them . '
`` The next morning when little Mr. Mouse awoke , he discovered that in the night something had happened to his hind legs .
They were very long and strong , regular jumping legs like those of Mr. Hare .
Of course he was in such a great hurry to try them that he could n't wait for his breakfast .
He began by making little short hops , and in no time at all he was getting about splendidly .
At last he got up his courage to try a long jump .
Up in the air he shot , and then something happened .
Yes , Sir , something happened .
He could n't kept his balance .
He turned two or three somersaults and landed on his back . '' '
I guess , ' said he to himself , ` I 've got to learn to make long jumps . '
So he kept trying and trying , but always with the same result -- he never knew when , where , or how he was going to land .
As long as he made short jumps he had no trouble , but every time he tried a long jump he lost his balance , and try as he would he could n't discover why .
So at last he gave up trying and contented himself with short jumps .
Finally Old Mother Nature came that way again . ''
` How do you like your long hind legs ? '
she asked . ''
` Very much , thank you , ' replied little Mr. Mouse politely . ''
` Let me see you jump , ' said Old Mother Nature .
`` Little Mr. Mouse made half a dozen little jumps .
They were not much more than hops .
` You do n't call that jumping , do you ? '
laughed Old Mother Nature .
` With such long , strong legs as I 've given you , you ought to be one of the best jumpers anywhere about .
Now let me see you make a long jump . '
`` Little Mr. Mouse tried his best to think of some excuse , but he could n't .
So he made a long jump , and the usual thing happened -- he turned two or three somersaults and landed on his back .
Old Mother Nature looked astonished .
Then she laughed until she had to hold her sides .
` Do it again , ' she commanded .
`` With the most shamefaced air that you can imagine , little Mr. Mouse jumped again .
Old Mother Nature watched him closely .
` Come here to me , ' said she as he scrambled to his feet after his tumble .
` It 's all my fault , ' said she kindly , as he obeyed her .
` It was very stupid of me .
What you need is a long tail to balance you on a long jump .
That short tail is all right for short jumps , but it wo n't do for long jumps .
It wo n't do at all .
I should have thought of that when I made your legs long . '
`` She reached down and took hold of the tip of that little short tail and drew it out until it was long , almost twice as long as the body of little Mr. Mouse .
` Now jump , ' she commanded , ` and jump with all your might . '
`` A little fearfully but with the beginning of a little hope Mr. Mouse jumped with all his might .
Away he sailed straight and true and landed lightly on his feet so far from where he had left the ground that he could hardly believe his own eyes as he looked back .
Mother Nature was smiling . ''
` There you are , Mr. Limberheels .
I guess that that will make you quite the most wonderful jumper of all my children , ' said she .
`` And so it was that little Mr. Mouse , all at one time , became possessed of a long tail , a name , and the ability to out jump all his neighbors , '' concluded Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Do you know , '' he added wistfully , `` sometimes I envy my cousin Limberheels . ''
`` I envy him myself , '' declared Peter .
XI WHERE OLD MR. GOBBLER GOT THE STRUTTING HABIT Peter Rabbit never will forget the first time he saw Big Tom Gobbler .
It was very early one spring morning , when Peter was not yet old enough to have made the acquaintance of all the people who live in the Green Forest , and when it seemed as if the chief thing in life with him was to satisfy his curiosity about the ways of the Great World .
Several times when he had been hopping along , lipperty-lipperty-lip , through the Green Forest just after sun-up , he had heard a strange sound quite unlike any other of all the many sounds his long ears had learned to know .
He knew that it was the voice of some one who lived in the Green Forest , but though he had looked and looked he had been unable to discover the owner of that voice .
On this particular morning Peter happened to be sitting under some ferns on the edge of a little open space among the trees when again he heard that strange voice .
It seemed to come from somewhere back in the woods in the very direction from which he had just come .
`` Gobble-obble-obble ! ''
said the voice , and again a moment later `` Gobble-obble-obble ! ''
Peter was just preparing to go back to see if he could find the owner of that voice when the noise of great wings caused him to look up just in time to see a bigger bird than he ever had even dreamed of coming swiftly over the tree-tops .
With his eyes popping out and his mouth wide open with astonishment , Peter saw the great bird set its wings and sail down into the little opening on the edge of which Peter was sitting .
The instant this great bird was on the ground , he stood as still as if he were made of stone , his long neck stretched up .
Only the shine of a pair of the sharpest eyes Peter ever had seen showed that he was alive .
Peter held his breath , and it was so still that you could have heard a leaf drop had you been there .
When at last the stranger moved , it was his head only .
He turned it suddenly to the right and a moment later to the left .
It was plain that he was listening for suspicious sounds .
All the time his bright eyes searched the edge of the opening until Peter , although he was well hidden , felt that he must be seen .
At last , satisfied that all was safe , the stranger drew in his neck and began to walk about , pecking at the ground here and there and swallowing what he picked up , though what it was Peter could n't tell .
A sound seemed to catch the stranger 's quick ears , for he stopped and stared very hard at a little clump of brush .
Peter stared at it too .
At first he saw nothing , but presently he saw a head poked out , and this also was a stranger .
Peter glanced at the big stranger in the opening , and for a minute he wondered if it could be that something was wrong with his eyes .
Never had he seen such a change in anybody .
This stranger did n't look like the same bird at all .
He was swelled up until Peter was afraid he would burst .
His tail was spread out like a great fan .
His head was laid back on his humped shoulders .
His wings were dropped until the stiffly spread feathers brushed the ground .
His head and neck were as red as blood , and there were no feathers on either .
All the feathers of his body were ruffed out so that the sun shone on them and made them shimmer and shine in colors that seemed to constantly change .
Back and forth in front of the brush from which the other stranger was peeping very shyly this great bird strutted .
He would stand still so that the sun would fall full on his shining coat and show it off to the best advantage , and at the same time he would draw in a great deal of air and then puff it out all at once .
Then he would walk a few steps , turn , drag his wings on the ground to make them rustle , wheel , and run a few steps .
Never had Peter seen such vanity , such conceit , such imposing , puffed-up pride .
He watched until he grew tired , and then he stole away and hurried over to the Smiling Pool to tell Grandfather Frog all about it and ask who these strangers were .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog , opening his big mouth very wide to laugh at Peter and his excitement .
`` That was Big Tom Gobbler , and he was doing all that for the benefit of Mrs. Gobbler , who was hiding in that brush .
It was her head you saw .
Big Tom is the most conceited fellow in the Green Forest .
He dearly loves to strut .
He is just like his father and his grandfather and his great-grandfather .
The Gobblers never have gotten over strutting since Old Mr. Gobbler , the first of the family , got the habit . ''
`` Tell me about it .
Please , Grandfather Frog , tell me about it , '' begged Peter .
`` How did Old Mr. Gobbler get the habit ? ''
Grandfather Frog chuckled .
`` He got it from admiring his own reflection in a pool of water , '' said he .
`` You see , in those days way back when the world was young , people had more time to form habits than they do now .
With plenty to eat and little to do , they had more time to think about themselves than they do now .
Old Mr. Gobbler soon discovered that he was the biggest of all the birds in that part of the Great World where he lived , and this discovery was , I suspect , the beginning of his vanity .
Then one day as he was walking along , he came to a little pool of water .
It was very clear , and there was n't a ripple on the surface .
There for the first time Mr. Gobbler saw his reflection .
The more he looked , the better he liked his own appearance .
He spread his tail just to see how it would look in the water .
Then he puffed himself out and strutted . ''
` There is nobody to compare with me , ' thought he , and strutted more than ever .
`` After that he used to steal away every day to admire himself in that little pool of water .
He tried new ways of strutting and of puffing himself out .
After a while he was no longer content to admire himself .
He wanted others to admire him .
So the first chance he got he began to strut and show off all his grand airs before Mrs. Gobbler .
At first she paid no attention to him .
At least that is the way she appeared .
She would turn her back on him and walk off into the bushes .
This made Old Mr. Gobbler very angry until he discovered that she would tiptoe back and watch him admiringly when she thought he did n't know it .
That made him strut all the more .
`` At first all the neighbors used to gather around and admire him and tell him how handsome he was until his head was quite turned , as the saying is , and he spent most of his time strutting and showing off .
Then he took to bragging and boasting that there was no bird to compare with him .
Thus he became quite unbearable , and all his neighbors would turn their backs on him when they saw him coming .
Only Mrs. Gobbler continued to watch in secret and to admire him .
`` Now in those days Mr. Gobbler did n't have a red head and neck .
One day Old Mother Nature happened along when Mr. Gobbler was strutting and boasting how big and brave he was .
He did n't see her , and she watched him quietly for a few minutes .
Then she slipped away and hunted up Mr. Wolf . '' '
I want you to steal over where Mr. Gobbler is strutting , ' said she , ` and suddenly spring out at him as if you intended to catch him . '
`` Mr. Wolf grinned and trotted off to do her bidding .
He found Mr. Gobbler swelled up until he looked as if he must burst , and bragging to Mrs. Gobbler . ''
` I 'm the biggest of all the birds , ' bragged Mr. Gobbler .
` I 'm afraid of no one .
While you have me with you , my dear , you have nothing in all the Great World to fear . '
`` Just then out sprang Mr. Wolf with all his long , sharp teeth showing .
Mr. Gobbler gave a yelp of fright .
He lost his swelled-up appearance as suddenly as a bubble flattens out when it is pricked .
With a frantic beating of his wings he took to the air .
Being in such a fright , he did n't see where he was going , and struck his head against a sharp twig , which tore the skin , for there were no feathers to protect it , and made it bleed .
The blood ran all over his head and down his neck , though he really was hardly hurt at all .
From the top of a tall tree he looked down .
There stood Old Mother Nature , looking up at him . ''
` Mr. Gobbler , ' said she , ` you have acquired a bad habit , a very bad habit .
Hereafter , whenever you become vain and strut , your head and neck shall become as red as they now are , as a reminder to you and all who see you of how silly it is to be vain and boastful . '
`` And so it was .
And so it is with Big Tom Gobbler to this day .
There is nothing in the world more foolish than vanity , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Do n't call me Striped Chipmunk , and do n't call me Gopher ! ''
said he .
Page 172 .
-RSB- XII WHERE SEEK-SEEK GOT HIS PRETTY COAT Peter Rabbit never will forget the first time he saw Seek-Seek the Ground Squirrel , often wrongly called Gopher or Gopher Squirrel , but whose real name is Spermophile , which means seed eater .
Peter wo n't forget that meeting , because of the funny mistake he made and the foolish feeling he had as a result of it .
You see , Peter did n't know that there was such a person as Seek-Seek .
He was hopping along across the Green Meadows in his usual happy-go-lucky way when , right in front of him , he saw what at first he took to be a stake , a small stake , driven in the ground .
But as he drew nearer , it suddenly moved .
It was n't a stake at all , but a very lively small person in a striped coat who had been sitting up very straight and motionless .
`` Hello , Striped Chipmunk !
What are you doing way out here so far from the old stone wall ? ''
exclaimed Peter .
The small person in the striped coat whirled and faced Peter with snapping eyes .
`` Do n't call me Striped Chipmunk , and do n't call me Gopher ! ''
said he very fiercely for so small a person .
`` I am neither one .
I am Seek-Seek the Ground Squirrel , and I 'll thank you to call me by my own name .
I am getting everlastingly tired of being called the names of other people . ''
Peter looked very foolish .
`` I beg your pardon , '' said he .
`` I do indeed .
I 'm sorry .
Perhaps you do n't know it , but you look very much like Striped Chipmunk , who is one of my best friends .
You look so much like him that I thought you must be him .
I wonder if you are related to him . ''
`` Certainly I 'm related to him , or he is related to me , whichever way you please to put it , '' snapped Seek-Seek .
`` We are cousins .
But he is a Rock Squirrel , and I am a Ground Squirrel which is altogether different .
You do n't find me where there are rocks and stones in the way if I know it .
Besides , if you used your eyes , you would see that we are not dressed alike either .
Just because we both happen to wear stripes is no reason why we should be mistaken for each other . ''
Peter looked at Seek-Seek more closely than he had , and at once he made a discovery .
`` Why ! ''
he exclaimed , `` your coat has more stripes than Striped Chipmunk 's has , has n't it ? ''
`` I should hope so , '' retorted Seek-Seek .
`` And it has little rows of spots , too ! ''
cried Peter .
`` If I had noticed those spots at first , I would n't have made such a foolish mistake .
I do believe that your coat is prettier than Striped Chipmunk 's , and I had thought his as pretty as a coat can be . ''
Seek-Seek looked rather pleased , though he tried not to .
`` Huh ! ''
he sniffed .
`` Of course it 's prettier .
It took you a long time to find it out .
I would n't trade coats with Striped Chipmunk or anybody else of my acquaintance . ''
`` Neither would I if I were in your place , '' declared Peter .
`` I wish Old Mother Nature had given me a coat like that . ''
He said this so wistfully that Seek-Seek , who had started to laugh , turned his head so that Peter might not know it .
`` I 'm afraid it would n't look so well on one as big as you , '' he replied .
`` Anyway , you would n't be able to hide from your enemies as you can now . ''
`` That 's so , '' said Peter thoughtfully .
`` I would be easily seen in a coat like that , for a fact .
I had n't thought of that .
I guess Old Mother Nature knows best .
I -- I wonder how she ever happened to think of a coat like yours . ''
Seek-Seek chuckled .
He had quite forgotten that he had felt offended because Peter had mistaken him for his cousin , Striped Chipmunk .
He enjoyed Peter 's admiration of his coat .
He is naturally rather talkative , and like most folks he enjoyed talking about himself .
`` This coat , '' said he , `` has been in the family a very great while .
Of course , I do n't mean this particular coat that I am wearing , '' he hastened to add , as he saw Peter beginning to grin .
`` I mean this style of coat has been in the family a very long time .
My father was dressed just as I am .
So was his father and -- '' `` I know , '' interrupted Peter .
`` You were going to say that so were all your grandfathers way back to the days when the world was young , and Old Mother Nature made the very first one of your family .
It 's funny to me that all the interesting things happened such a long time ago .
Now was n't that what you were going to say ? ''
Seek-Seek admitted that it was , and looked a little disappointed that Peter had guessed it .
But a second later he felt better when Peter asked him very politely but very earnestly for the story of how the first Ground Squirrel got such a pretty coat .
`` There is a story .
I know there is a story , '' declared Peter .
`` Wo n't you tell it to me please , Seek-Seek ? ''
Now Peter did n't want to hear it any more than Seek-Seek wanted to tell it , so while Peter squatted down comfortably , Seek-Seek sat up very straight and began the story .
`` First of all , you must know that Seek-Seek is an old family name which has been handed down just as the pattern of my coat has been .
The very first of all my great-great-grandfathers was called Seek-Seek .
When Old Mother Nature made Seek-Seek she must have had two families in mind at one time , the Marmot family and the Squirrel family , for she made him a little like each , so that in his looks he sort of fitted in between the two .
Mother Nature told him that he was a member of the Squirrel family and set him free to find a place for himself in the Great World .
`` Now it did n't take Grandfather Seek-Seek long to find out that though he might be a member of the Squirrel family , Old Mother Nature had failed to furnish him with the right kind of claws for climbing trees , as most of his cousins did .
True , he could climb a little , but it was not easy , and he felt anything but comfortable off the ground .
But if those claws were of little use for climbing they were splendid tools for digging , just as are the claws of the Marmot family .
So Old Mother Nature must have been thinking of the Marmots when she fashioned those claws .
`` At first Seek-Seek wandered about trying to find a place for himself in the Great World .
Being a Squirrel , he tried to live as did his cousins , Mr. Red Squirrel and Mr. Gray Squirrel , but on account of those claws he did n't make much of a success of it .
Then one day he met Mr. Chipmunk .
They stopped and stared at each other in surprise because , you know , their coats were so much alike .
At that time Seek-Seek was wearing plain stripes , just as Striped Chipmunk does to this day . ''
` What do you mean by stealing my coat ? '
demanded Mr. Chipmunk angrily . '' '
I was just about to ask you the same question , ' retorted Seek-Seek .
`` Mr. Chipmunk had a sharp reply right on the tip of his tongue , but he checked it just in time .
` What 's the use of quarreling over something neither of us had anything to do with ? '
said he .
` It must be that we are cousins .
Where do you live ? '
`` Seek-Seek explained that he did n't live anywhere in particular but was trying to find his place in the Great World .
He told how he had tried to live like the other Squirrels and failed . '
I know !
I know all about it , ' interrupted Mr. Chipmunk .
` I 've been all through it .
The place for us is on the ground or at least close to it .
Come see how I live . '
`` So Seek-Seek went with Mr. Chipmunk and saw how he lived among the rocks and stones .
For a time he tried living there too , but he did n't like the rocks and stones much better than he did the trees .
Besides , all the neighbors were forever mistaking him for Mr. Chipmunk because they looked so much alike , and he did n't like this .
One day he wandered out on the Green Meadows .
It was very lovely out there among the grasses and flowers .
He wandered farther and farther , and the farther he wandered the better he liked it .
By and by he came to the home of Yap-Yap the Prairie Dog , who is one of the Marmot family , as you know . '' '
A home like that would suit me , ' thought Grandfather Seek-Seek wistfully , as he journeyed on . '
I wonder if I could dig one .
I believe I 'll try . '
`` So when he found a place to suit him he began to dig .
There were no stones to hurt his feet and dull his nails , and he actually enjoyed digging .
So he dug and dug until he had a wonderful underground home .
All about were plenty of seeds and tender grasses to eat , and he was happy .
He had found his place in the Great World .
Then one day along came Old Mother Nature .
` Hello , Mr. Chipmunk , ' she exclaimed , as she caught sight of his striped coat , ` what are you doing way out here ? '
`` Then she discovered her mistake .
` Dear me , ' said she , ` this will never do at all .
If I ca n't tell my own children apart , how can I expect others to ?
Your coat is altogether too much like that of Mr. Chipmunk .
I must change it .
I certainly must change it . '
`` She leaned over and lightly tapped Seek-Seek right down the length of the broadest brown stripe of his coat .
Wherever her finger touched a little spot of yellow was left .
Then she did the same thing to each of the other brown stripes .
When she had finished Grandfather Seek-Seek had a coat exactly like the one I am now wearing , and his cup of happiness was filled to the brim .
From that day on he never was mistaken for Mr. Chipmunk or any one else .
That 's the story of my coat , and now I must get busy collecting seeds for my storehouse , '' concluded Seek-Seek .
`` Come and see me again , Peter Rabbit . ''
`` I will , '' replied Peter , as he started for the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Mrs. Peter all about Seek-Seek and his pretty coat .
XIII WHERE OLD MR. OSPREY LEARNED TO FISH Peter Rabbit had seen a very strange thing .
It was strange to Peter , anyway .
It gave him something to think about , and this , I am sure you will agree , was a most excellent thing , for it kept him out of mischief for a while .
He had been over to the Smiling Pool for a call on Jerry Muskrat and had just started back for the dear Old Briar-patch when he chanced to look over in the direction of the Big River .
Coming straight towards him , but high in the air , was a big bird , a bird with broad wings .
Peter did n't have to look twice to know that it was a member of the Hawk family .
At first he thought it was Redtail .
Then he caught a flash of white , and he thought it was Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , in spite of the fact that it did n't fly like him .
Peter did n't stop to think of that .
It was enough for him that a member of the Hawk family was headed that way , and he did n't care a twitch of his funny little tail which member it was .
He felt that the stomach of one was quite as undesirable a place for Peter Rabbit as the stomach of another , and he had no intention of filling any if he could help it .
He remembered that there was an old house of Johnny Chuck 's under the Big Hickory-tree on the bank of the Smiling Pool , and he wasted no time in getting there , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as he could go .
He would stay there until the way was clear to get home to the dear Old Briar-patch .
As soon as he was safe in the old house of Johnny Chuck , he turned and poked his head out of the doorway .
He wanted to see if any one would be caught .
He hoped not , but if any one was caught , he wanted to see .
You know Peter never misses anything if he can help it .
On came Mr. Hawk , and when he was right over the Smiling Pool , he turned and made a short circle high in the air .
Then Peter saw that he had a white waist-coat and was a stranger .
`` I wonder who he is ? ''
thought Peter , staring very hard .
`` He 's bigger than either Redtail or Whitetail .
I hope he is n't going to make his home here , because we have trouble enough as it is . ''
Suddenly Mr. Hawk paused high up in the air , then closed his wings and shot straight down like an arrow .
Plunge !
Peter could n't believe his own eyes .
Mr. Hawk actually had disappeared in the Smiling Pool !
A second later there was a great splashing , and out of the water rose Mr. Hawk , flapping his great wings heavily , scattering spray in all directions .
Up , up he went , and then Peter saw that in his great claws was a fish .
Peter watched him fly away with the fish , and when he felt that it was quite safe to do so , he came out .
Over on the end of an old log among the bulrushes sat Jerry Muskrat just where Peter had left him .
It was very plain that Jerry had n't been the least bit frightened by Mr. Hawk .
Peter could n't understand it .
His eyes fairly popped out of his head with excitement and curiosity .
`` Who was that ? ''
he asked eagerly .
`` That ?
Why , that was Plunger the Osprey , though some people call him Fish Hawk , '' replied Jerry .
`` I thought everybody knew him .
Why did you run away , Peter ?
He would n't hurt you . ''
`` Huh !
I would n't trust any Hawk ! ''
snapped Peter .
`` Which goes to show how little you know ! ''
retorted Jerry Muskrat .
`` Plunger never bothers anybody but the fish , but he surely is a terror to them .
Old Mother Nature knew what she was doing when she made fishermen out of that family , did n't she ? ''
`` She certainly did , though I 've never heard how she came to do it .
How did it happen , Jerry ? ''
Peter was doing some fishing himself .
He was fishing for a story .
Jerry Muskrat grinned .
`` Think you 'll sleep any better if I tell you ? ''
he inquired .
Peter grinned back and nodded .
So Jerry Muskrat told him this story : `` Way back in the days when the world was young , and the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfathers of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest of today were being started out in life by Old Mother Nature , they had everything to learn .
The Great World was a new place , and they were new in it .
No one knew exactly his place or what was expected of him , and Old Mother Nature was too busy to be bothered with questions .
She expected each one to work out for himself a way in which to make himself useful , or at least to take care of himself , without bothering her .
If he could n't do that , she did n't want him around at all , and the sooner something happened to him the better .
So the Great World began to be peopled with birds and animals .
`` It did n't take them long to learn that it would n't be possible for all to live if they all ate the same kind of food .
So some learned to eat one thing and some another , and all went happily until there came a time when all food was scarce , and more stomachs were empty than full .
You 've heard about that hard time and sad time ? ''
Peter nodded , and Jerry took a drink of water and then went on with his tale .
`` Of course , that was really a very dreadful time , for it was then that the strong began to hunt the weak , and fear was born into the world .
And yet I guess it was n't wholly bad .
Nothing is , so far as I can find out .
Anyway , because of that hard time , everybody became a little smarter than before .
You know an empty stomach sharpens wit , and fear puts a fine edge on it .
Now Mr. Osprey , who was one of the biggest of the cousins of old King Eagle , could n't get over a feeling of meanness whenever he hunted those smaller than himself .
One day he caught little Mr. Sparrow when little Mr. Sparrow was so busy that he forgot to watch out . ''
` I 'm powerful sorry , Mr. Sparrow , ' apologized Mr. Osprey , ` but there 's an emptiness just about your size in my stomach , and it wo n't give me any peace of mind until it 's filled .
I hate to make a neighbor uncomfortable , and I 'll be just as quick and accommodating about this little matter as I can .
If you 'll just shut your eyes , you wo n't see anything unpleasant , and I wo n't be a minute in getting that peace of mind I 've been without so long .
I just must have it , or I would n't bother you at all .
I hope you wo n't hold it against me , Mr. Sparrow . '
`` Mr. Osprey was so nice and polite about it that little Mr. Sparrow perked up a little and started his wits working .
He tried to be just as nice and polite as Mr. Osprey . '
I know just how you feel , Mr. Osprey , ' said he , in a trembling voice , ` and during these hard times I 've had that same ailment of the mind because of lonesomeness of the stomach , which is troubling you .
So long as that emptiness is filled , I do n't suppose it matters to you if I should n't happen to fill it . ' ''
` Not at all , ' replied Mr. Osprey . ''
` Mr. Osprey , ' said little Mr. Sparrow very earnestly , ` if I were in your place , I never would go hungry .
No , Sir , I never would go hungry .
And I certainly never , never would trouble any of my neighbors who wear feathers .
I certainly would feel most happy if Old Mother Nature had given me what she has given you .
Indeed I would . '
`` Mr. Osprey looked down at little Mr. Sparrow and blinked at him in a puzzled way .
` What has Old Mother Nature given me that you would be happy to have ? '
he asked . ''
` Fishhooks ! '
replied little Mr. Sparrow , pointing to Mr. Osprey 's great claws , ` the finest fishhooks in the world .
You do n't hear Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter or Mr. Heron complaining about hard times .
Why ?
Because they do n't know what hard times are .
There are plenty of fish to be caught , and when they are hungry they go fishing .
Fish are very filling and satisfying , I 've heard say .
When I flew across the Smiling Pool a little while ago , I saw a fat fish taking a sun-bath right close to the top of the water .
Seemed like he was just waiting for some one with hooks to come along and snatch him right out of the water . ' ''
` Where 'd you say that fish was ? '
asked Mr. Osprey . ''
` If you 'll let me go , I 'll show you , ' replied little Mr. Sparrow .
`` So Mr. Osprey let little Mr. Sparrow go , but he followed him right close .
Mr. Sparrow led the way straight to the Smiling Pool .
Sure enough , there was the big fish taking a sun-bath .
Mr. Osprey hardly wet his feet putting those big hooks into that fish .
He flew away with it , and presently he was rid of that emptiness in his stomach and had back his peace of mind .
After that , whenever he was hungry , he went fishing instead of hunting the birds and the animals .
By practice he learned how to use those big fishhooks of his and became one of the smartest of all fishermen .
He and little Mr. Sparrow became great friends , in fact , such friends that when Mr. Osprey built a great nest , little Mr. Sparrow built his right in the side of it , and there he was perfectly safe from others who might be hunting him .
And it 's been just that way ever since .
If you wore scales instead of fur , and lived in the water instead of on the land , Peter Rabbit , you would have reason to fear Plunger the Osprey , but as it is , you are safer when he is about than when he is n't .
There comes old Redtail the Hawk .
You 'd better get out of sight , Peter . ''
Peter did .
XIV WHERE OLD MR. BOB-CAT LEFT HIS HONOR Of all those who are forever trying to catch Peter Rabbit , he fears none more than Yowler the Bob-cat .
And from that fear has grown hate .
You will find it true all through life that hate often springs from great fear .
Peter is n't much given to hate , but he does hate Yowler the Bob-cat .
It is partly because of his fear of Yowler , but it is still more because he feels that Yowler is not fair in his hunting .
He has no honor .
There are many others whom Peter fears , -- Reddy Fox , Old Man Coyote , Hooty the Owl , -- and with very good reason .
But Peter considers that these hunt him fairly .
He knows when and where to be on the watch for them .
But with Yowler it is altogether different .
Yowler hides beside one of Peter 's favorite little paths , and there he waits patiently for unsuspecting Peter to come along .
He waits and watches much as Black Pussy , who is a cousin of Yowler , waits and watches at a mousehole .
Peter feels that it does n't give him a chance , and everybody is entitled to at least a chance to live .
`` I hate him !
hate him !
hate him ! ''
exclaimed Peter fiercely , as he crawled under the very middle of a great pile of brush after the narrowest of narrow escapes .
He had been hopping along one of his favorite little paths without a thought of danger .
Presently he came to a little branch path .
There he hesitated .
He had intended to keep on along the main path , but suddenly he had a feeling that it would be better to take the branch path .
He knew no reason why he should n't keep on as he had planned .
It was just a feeling that it would be better to take the other path , a feeling without any real reason .
So he hesitated and finally turned down the little branch path .
As he did so he caught a glimpse of a brown form moving stealthily from behind a log farther up the main little path .
It was moving swiftly in the direction of the little branch path .
That glimpse was enough for Peter .
That stealthy form could be but one person -- Yowler the Bob-cat .
He turned and darted back the way he had come and then off to one side to the great pile of brush under which he had crawled .
`` Who is it you hate ? ''
asked a voice .
For just a second Peter was startled , then he recognized the voice of Mrs. Grouse , one of his very best friends .
`` Yowler the Bob-cat , '' said he as fiercely as before .
`` I do n't love him myself , '' replied Mrs. Grouse .
`` I suspected that he was somewhere about , and that is why I am here .
Did you see him ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Peter , `` I saw him .
He was hiding beside my favorite little path , and it is a wonder I did n't hop straight into his jaws .
That fellow does n't hunt fairly .
He does n't give us a chance .
He has n't any honor . ''
`` Honor ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Grouse .
`` Honor !
Of course he has n't any honor .
There has n't been any honor in Yowler 's family since old Mr. Bob-cat , the first of all the Bob-cats , left his honor in Turkey Wood , way back in the days when the world was young , and failed to get it again .
Honor !
Of course Yowler has n't any .
What could you expect ? ''
At once Peter was all ears .
`` I 've never heard about that , '' said he .
`` Tell me about it , Mrs. Grouse .
We 've got to stay right where we are for a long time to make sure that Yowler has given us up and gone away , so you will have plenty of time to tell me the story .
Where was Turkey Wood , and how did old Mr. Bob-cat happen to leave his honor there ? ''
`` He did n't happen to ; he did it deliberately , '' replied Mrs. Grouse .
`` You see , it was like this : In the beginning of things , when Old Mother Nature made the first little people and the first big people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , she was too busy to watch over them all the time , so for a while she put them on their honor not to harm one another or interfere with one another in any way , for she wanted them to live in peace and happiness and raise families to people the Great World .
`` Now it chanced that Mr. and Mrs. Gobbler , the first of the Turkey family , chose a certain little grove of trees in which to make their home , and it became known as Turkey Wood .
There , in course of time , Mrs. Turkey made her nest on the ground , well hidden among some bushes , and in it laid twelve big eggs .
It was the day on which she laid the twelfth big egg that old Mr. Bob-cat , who , of course , was n't old then , took it into his head to prowl about in Turkey Wood .
Already Mr. Bob-cat had begun to form a sneaky habit of stealth .
He was very fond of watching his neighbors to find out what they were about , and it was this fondness of minding the business of other people instead of his own that was making him sneaky and stealthy , for of course he did n't want any one to know what he was doing .
`` It happened that as he stole into Turkey Wood , Mrs. Gobbler left her nest to get a bite to eat .
Mr. Bob-cat saw her , but she did n't see him .
He crouched flat until she was out of sight . ''
` She seemed mighty careful about how she slipped out of those bushes , ' thought Mr. Bob-cat .
` She acted as if she did n't want to be seen .
I wonder why .
I wonder if she has a secret hidden in those bushes .
I suppose the way to find out is to look . '
`` First making sure that no one saw him , Mr. Bob-cat crept in his sneaky way into the bushes , and it did n't take him long to find that nest with the twelve big eggs .
He did n't know what they were , for they were the first eggs he had ever seen .
He stared at them and wondered if they were good to eat .
He glanced this way and that way to be sure that no one was watching him . ''
` Do n't touch them , ' warned something inside of him .
` These belong to Mrs. Gobbler , and Old Mother Nature has put you on your honor not to interfere with others or their affairs . ' ''
` It wo n't do any harm just to touch them and see what they are like , ' said another little tempting voice inside of him . ''
` Remember your honor , ' warned the first little voice . ''
` Bother my honor !
I 'm not going to do any harm , ' muttered Mr. Bob-cat , and picked up one of the eggs in his mouth .
He tried it with his teeth to see if it was hard , and of course he put his teeth right through the shell .
He started to put it back in a hurry , but just then he noticed a good taste in his mouth .
The inside of that egg was good to eat , very good indeed ! ''
` One wo n't be missed , ' thought Mr. Bob-cat , and then , fearing that Mrs. Gobbler would return , he bounded away , taking the egg with him .
`` When Mrs. Gobbler returned , she did miss that egg .
She looked all about for it , but there was nothing to show what had become of it .
With a troubled mind she began to sit on her eggs .
She was so worried that she did n't leave them until she simply had to get something to eat .
`` Meanwhile Mr. Bob-cat had eaten that egg , and it had tasted so good that he could think of nothing but how he could get another .
So at the first opportunity he sneaked back to Turkey Wood , and without making a sound crept in among the bushes until he could see Mrs. Gobbler sitting on her eggs .
There he lay and watched and watched until Mrs. Gobbler left to get something to eat .
No sooner was she out of sight than Mr. Bob-cat stole to the nest . ''
` Remember your honor , ' warned the little voice inside . ''
` Bother honor .
I 'd rather have an egg , ' muttered Mr. Bob-cat , and pulled one out of the nest .
He bit a hole in one end and sucked out the contents .
It was so good he took another .
This led to a third , and finally Mr. Bob-cat had sucked every one of those eggs .
Then silently he sneaked away -- away from Turkey Wood to a distant part of the Green Forest .
Behind him in Turkey Wood he left a nestful of empty shells and his honor . ''
` Nobody knows who did it , and nobody ever will find out , ' thought Mr. Bob-cat , but all the time he knew that he had left his honor behind , and this made him more sneaky than ever .
He never would meet any one face to face .
You know that is something that one who has lost his honor never can do .
It was n't long before all his neighbors knew that he was without honor , and so would have nothing to do with him .
They shunned him .
He grew to be more and more of a sneak .
And all the time he believed that no one knew what he had done or where he had left his honor .
`` But Old Mother Nature knew .
Of course Mrs. Gobbler told her what had happened to her eggs .
Old Mother Nature told her to make a new nest and hide it more carefully than before , which Mrs. Gobbler did and hatched out ten fine young Gobblers .
Meanwhile Old Mother Nature went about her business , but all the time she was watching to see who would fail to look her straight in the face .
The first time she met Mr. Bob-cat he tried to slip past unseen .
When Old Mother Nature stepped in front of him , he could n't look her in the face , try as he would . ''
` Ah-ha ! '
said she .
` You are the one who left his honor in Turkey Wood .
From this time forth you shall be an outcast , friendless and alone , hated by every one . '
`` And so it was , and has been ever since .
And so it is with Yowler today .
You said truly , Peter , that he has n't any honor .
Is n't it dreadful ? ''
And Peter agreed that it is .
XV WHERE DIPPY THE LOON GOT THE NAME OF BEING CRAZY As you all know , Peter Rabbit is out and about at a time when most folks are snugly tucked in bed .
The fact is , Peter is very fond of roaming around at night .
He says he feels safer then in spite of the fact that some of his smartest enemies are also out and about , among them Hooty the Owl and Reddy Fox and Old Man Coyote .
The two latter also hunt by day when the fancy takes them or they have been so unsuccessful at night that their stomachs wo n't give them any peace , and Peter is sure that though they can see very well at night , they can see still better in the light of day .
Anyway , that is one of the reasons he gives for his own liking for roaming after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun has gone to bed behind the Purple Hills .
Now it happened one moonlight night that Peter had ventured way over almost to the Big River .
He had heard Hooty the Owl 's fierce hunting call far off in the Green Forest .
He had heard Reddy Fox barking up in the Old Pasture .
So Peter felt quite safe .
He felt so safe that he had almost forgotten that there could be such a thing as fear .
And then , from the direction of the Big River , there came such a sound as Peter never had heard before .
It was a sound that made his heart seem to quite stop beating for an instant .
It was a sound that sent cold chills racing and chasing all over him .
It was a sound that made him wish with all his might that he was that instant right in the heart of the dear Old Briar-patch instead of way over there near the bank of the Big River .
He did n't waste much time getting back to the dear Old Briar-patch , once he was sure his heart had n't really stopped beating .
The way he went across the Green Meadows , lipperty-lipperty-lip , lipperty-lipperty-lip , was positive proof that in spite of his fright his heart was quite all right .
He did n't run a little way , stop , run a little farther and stop again , as is his usual way .
He kept lipperty-lipperty-lipping without a single stop until he reached the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch and once more felt really safe .
Two or three times he had felt that he must stop to get his breath , but each time that sound , that dreadful sound , had seemed to be following right at his heels , and he had suddenly discovered that he did n't need to stop after all .
But having reached the dear Old Briar-patch Peter stopped and panted for breath while he anxiously watched for the appearance of some unknown enemy following him .
It was then that he realized that that sound came from the Big River , and that whoever made it had not left the Big River at all .
It made Peter feel a wee bit foolish as he thought how he had been sure that there was danger right at his very heels all the way home , when all the time there had n't been any danger at all .
Peter sat there and listened , and despite the fact that he now felt absolutely safe , the cold chills ran over him every time he heard it .
It was a voice ; Peter was sure of that .
It was a voice , but such a voice as Peter never in his life had heard before .
It was quite as bad if not worse than the voice of Old Man Coyote .
In a way it reminded him of Old Man Coyote 's voice , but while Old Man Coyote 's voice sounded like many voices in one , it was not so fearsome as this voice , for this voice sounded like a human voice , yet was n't .
Something inside Peter told him that it was n't a human voice , in spite of its sounding so .
The next morning Peter ran over to the Smiling Pool to ask Grandfather Frog if he had any idea who could have such a voice as that .
When he tried to tell Grandfather Frog what that voice was like , he could n't .
He just could n't describe it .
`` It was the lonesomest and craziest sound I 've ever heard , '' declared Peter , `` and that is all I can tell you .
It was crazier than the voice of Old Man Coyote . ''
`` That is all you need tell me , '' chuckled Grandfather Frog .
`` That was the voice of Dippy the Loon .
And let me tell you something , Peter : you are not the first one to think his voice has a crazy sound .
Oh , my , no !
No , indeed !
Why , a lot of people think Dippy is crazy , and when any one does queer things they say of him that he is ` crazy as a Loon . '
`` But is he crazy ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Not half so crazy as you are , Peter , coming over here to the Smiling Pool in broad daylight .
He likes to be thought crazy , just as his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather did before him , that 's all .
Everybody thought his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather was crazy , and it paid Mr. Loon to have them think so .
So he did his best to make them keep thinking so . ''
`` Tell me about it .
Do please tell me about it , Grandfather Frog , '' begged Peter .
`` Please , please , please . ''
Now how could Grandfather Frog resist that ?
He could n't .
He did n't even try to .
He just cleared his throat once or twice and began .
`` Once on a time , long , long ago , lived the very first of all the Loons , the ever-and-ever-and-ever-so-great-grandfather of Dippy , whose voice frightened you so last night . ''
`` How did you know it frightened me ? ''
exclaimed Peter , for he had taken care not to tell Grandfather Frog anything about that .
Grandfather Frog chuckled and went right on with his story .
`` Right from the beginning Mr. Loon was a mighty independent fellow .
It did n't take him long to find out that Old Mother Nature had too much to do to waste any time on those who did n't try to take care of themselves , and that those would live longest who were smartest and most independent .
He had sharp eyes , had old Mr. Loon , just as Dippy has today , and he used them to good account .
He saw at once that with so many birds and animals living on the land it was likely to get crowded after a while , and that when such became the case , it was going to be mighty hard work for some to get a living .
So Mr. Loon went to Mother Nature and told her that if she had no objections he would like a pair of swimming feet and would live on the water .
`` Now Old Mother Nature had just fitted out Mr. Duck with a pair of webbed feet that he might swim , so she was quite prepared to fit Mr. Loon out in like manner . '' '
I suppose , ' said she , ` that you want a bill like Mr. Duck 's . '
`` Mr. Loon shook his head .
` Thank you , ' said he , ` but I would prefer a sharp bill to a broad one . ' ''
` How is that ? '
exclaimed Mother Nature .
` Mr. Duck has been delighted with his bill ever since I gave it to him . ' ''
` And with good reason , ' replied Mr. Loon .
` Did I propose to live as Mr. Duck lives , I should want a bill just like his , but I find that fish are more to my liking .
Also I have noticed that there are fewer who eat fish . '
`` So Mother Nature gave him the kind of bill he wanted , and Mr. Loon went about his business .
He managed to get fish enough to keep from going hungry , but he found that the only way he could do it was to sit perfectly still until a fish swam within reach and then strike swiftly .
In fact , his fishing was much like that of Mr. Heron , save that the latter stood instead of sitting .
Success was chiefly the result of luck and patience .
`` Now this sort of thing was not at all to the liking of Mr. Loon .
He gloried in his strength and he wanted to hunt for his fish and catch them in fair chase instead of waiting for them to unsuspectingly swim within reach .
He practised and practised swimming and diving , but he soon made up his mind that he never would be able to move through the water fast enough to catch a fish unless there was some change .
He watched the fish swim , and he saw that the power which drove them through the water came from their tails .
Mr. Loon grew very thoughtful .
`` The next time Mother Nature came around to see how everybody was getting on , to hear complaints , and to grant such requests as seemed wise , Mr. Loon was on hand .
` If you please , ' said he when his turn came , ' I would like my legs moved back to the lower end of my body . '
`` Mother Nature was surprised .
She looked it .
` But you 'll hardly be able to walk at all with your legs there ! '
she exclaimed .
`` Mr. Loon said that he knew that , and that he did n't want to walk .
He would far rather spend all his time on the water .
So Mother Nature granted his request .
Mr. Loon thanked her and started for the water .
He could n't keep his balance .
He simply flopped along , while all his neighbors , who had heard his queer request , jeered at him and called him crazy .
He just did n't pay any attention , but flopped along until he reached the water .
Then he swam away swiftly .
When he was quite by himself with none to see , he dived , and as he had hoped , he found that he could drive himself through the water at great speed .
He practised a while and then he went fishing .
When he caught his first fish in a fair chase , he was so delighted that he shrieked and shouted and laughed in the wildest fashion far into the night .
And those who had heard his strange request and thought him crazy were sure of it , as they listened to his wild laughter .
`` So little by little it was spread about among all the other people that Mr. Loon was crazy , and he was left much to himself , which was just what he desired .
He was quick to note that the sound of his voice sent shivers over some of his neighbors , and so he would shriek and laugh just to drive them away .
It pleased him to have them think him crazy , and he kept it up .
`` So it is with Dippy today , and last night you ran from the voice of a crazy Loon who is n't crazy at all , but likes to make people think he is , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
XVI WHERE BIG-HORN GOT HIS CURVED HORNS It was Digger the Badger who told Peter Rabbit the story of the great Ram who was the first of all the wild Sheep who live on the tops of the mountains bounding the great plains of the Far West on which Digger was born .
It happened that Farmer Brown 's flock of Sheep were grazing in the Old Pasture in plain sight of Digger as he sat on his doorstep watching his shadow grow longer .
At the head of the flock was a Ram whose horns curved around in almost a circle , and whom Peter Rabbit often had admired .
Peter happened along as Digger sat there on his doorstep watching his shadow grow longer , so he sat down at a safe and respectful distance and helped Digger watch his shadow grow longer .
Peter delights in doing things like this , because it is n't hard work at all .
It is only when there is real work concerned that Peter loses interest .
A lot of people are just like Peter in this respect .
Peter gazed over at the Old Pasture and he , too , saw Farmer Brown 's Sheep and the big Ram with the curving horns at his head .
For a long time Peter had greatly admired those horns , though he never had told any one so .
He had admired those horns because they were different from any other horns Peter ever had seen .
They looked perfectly useless for fighting because they curved so that the points never could be made to hurt any one , but just the same Peter admired them .
Now as he watched he spoke aloud , without thinking what he was doing .
`` I wish I had a pair of horns like those , '' said he wistfully .
Digger the Badger stopped watching his shadow , and turned to stare at Peter .
Then he laughed until finally he choked .
Peter looked at him in surprise .
`` What 's the matter with you , Mr. Badger ? ''
asked he .
`` What is there to laugh at ? ''
`` Only you , Peter .
Only you , '' replied Digger faintly , for he had laughed so hard that he had almost lost his voice .
`` I am afraid you would find a pair of horns like those rather heavy , Peter , rather heavy . ''
Peter grinned .
`` Of course I did n't really mean that , '' said he .
`` Of course not .
I was just thinking how nice it would be to have such fine horns , if one were big enough to have horns .
I do n't believe there are any other such horns in all the Great World . ''
`` And that shows how little you know about the Great World , Peter , '' retorted Digger the Badger .
`` Did you ever see such horns before ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` No , I never did , '' confessed Digger , `` but I 've heard my grandfather tell of Sheep that live on the tops of the great mountains as free as Light-foot the Deer or any other of the Green Forest people , and with horns so large that they , the Sheep , are called Big-Horns .
From what I have heard my grandfather say , those horns over there of Mr. Ram 's are nothing to brag about .
No , Sir , they are nothing to brag about .
One of those wild , free cousins of Mr. Ram over there would laugh at those horns .
But they are funny horns , and they 've been like that always since the days of the first great Ram , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of all the Sheep , so my grandfather told me .
It was way back in those long-ago days that they became curved and quite useless for fighting , and all because of old Big-Horn going about with a chip on his shoulder . ''
Peter pricked up his ears .
`` That was a funny thing for Big-Horn to be doing , '' said he .
`` What under the sun did he have a chip on his shoulder for ?
And what harm was there in that , even if he did ? ''
Once more Digger began to laugh .
`` Peter , '' said he , `` you certainly are the funniest fellow I know .
Of course old Big-Horn did n't really have a chip on his shoulder .
That is just a saying , Peter , just a saying .
When any one goes about looking for trouble and ready to quarrel at the least pretext , he is said to be carrying a chip on his shoulder and daring anybody to knock it off . ''
`` Oh ! ''
said Peter .
`` And so , '' continued Digger , `` Big-Horn did n't have anything to do with a really , truly chip , but just went about always trying to get somebody to fight with him .
It was n't that Big-Horn was ugly .
He was n't .
You see Old Mother Nature had given him great strength .
Yes , Sir , for his size Big-Horn was very strong , and in that strength be took great pride .
And Mother Nature had given him a pair of very large and strong horns with which to defend himself if there should be need .
Those horns were almost straight , and with Big-Horn 's great strength behind them , they were truly dangerous weapons .
He did n't think of that .
No , Sir , he did n't think of that .
He was just brimming full of life , and he dearly loved to try his strength against the strength of others .
It got so that the instant he saw anybody , down would go his head and at them he would go full tilt .
`` It was great fun -- for him .
Sometimes he got the worst of it , as when Old King Bear stepped aside at the very last instant and hit him such a clip with his great paw that Big-Horn was sent rolling over and over and lost his breath for a few minutes .
But usually it was the other who got the worst of it , for those great , sharp-pointed horns of Big-Horn 's tore and hurt .
Indeed , even when he tried to be gentle with those smaller than himself he was forever hurting some one .
`` Finally some of his neighbors wished to go to Old Mother Nature and complain about Big-Horn , but others were against this plan because they knew that Old Mother Nature was quite loaded down with cares and worries as it was .
So instead they called a meeting to which everybody except Big-Horn was invited .
If Big-Horn could have heard all that was said about him , his ears surely would have burned .
Every one was of the opinion that something must be done , but just what no one could suggest .
At last , just when it seemed that the meeting would break up without anything being done , Old Man Coyote stepped forward .
Now Old Man Coyote already was known as a very clever fellow , more clever even than Mr. Fox , though it would never have done to say so where it would get back to the ears of Mr. Fox . ''
` Friends and neighbors , ' said Old Man Coyote , ` it seems to me a very simple matter to teach Neighbor Big-Horn a lesson that he will not soon forget .
Being rather bashful , I have n't liked to suggest it before , because I thought surely some one else would do it .
I suggest that some one be selected to fight Big-Horn , and when that one can fight no longer , some one else be selected to fight him , and so on until he gets tired , and some one can whip him .
Then I think he will have had enough of fighting . '
`` Up spoke Mr. Fox and he winked at his neighbor on the right and he winked at his neighbor on the left .
` That is a very good idea of Neighbor Coyote 's , ' said he , ' a very good idea indeed , and I suggest that Mr. Coyote be selected for the honor of being the first one to fight Big-Horn . '
Mr. Fox grinned in a sly way , and everybody else grinned , for everybody knew that Old Man Coyote never was known to fight when there was a chance to run away .
So with one accord everybody agreed with Mr. Fox , and Old Man Coyote was selected as the first one to face Big-Horn .
To everybody 's surprise , Old Man Coyote made no objections .
Instead he expressed himself as highly honored , and said that he hoped to do so well that there would be no need for others to fight Big-Horn .
So it was arranged that Big-Horn should be invited to fight Old Man Coyote the very next day .
`` You may be sure that everybody was on hand the next day to see that fight .
No one expected Old Man Coyote to appear .
But he did .
Yes , Sir , he did .
He was right on hand at the appointed time .
Big-Horn had n't been told whom he was to fight , and when he found that it was Old Man Coyote , he was disappointed .
You see , there was no anger in Big-Horn 's fighting ; he fought just for the love of using his great strength and big horns .
Fighting was fun to him , and he wanted some one who would stand up to him .
As soon as it was explained to him that when he had disposed of Old Man Coyote there would be some one else for him to fight -LRB- Mr. Deer had offered to be the next -RRB- , he felt better .
Mr. Deer had horns and was somewhere near his size .
`` Old Man Coyote slipped around until he had his back to a great rock .
` I 'm ready any time , ' said he .
`` Big-Horn , who had been stamping with impatience , lowered his head so that his horns pointed straight at Old Man Coyote .
He grinned as he did it , for he saw that with that great rock behind him , Old Man Coyote would have no chance to run away as he always had done in the past .
Everybody else saw the same thing , and wondered what could have happened to make Old Man Coyote so stupid as to do such a thing as that , he who always had been accounted so clever .
But they had hardly time to think of this , for with a snort Big-Horn bounded forward .
All the others held their breath as they saw those great horns driving straight at Old Man Coyote , who was crouched with his back to the great rock .
Then everybody closed their eyes for a second , for nobody wanted to see Old Man Coyote killed , and everybody knew that that was what was going to happen .
`` Then there was a crash , and everybody 's eyes flew open .
There lay Big-Horn on the ground , looking mighty puzzled , as if he was n't quite sure what had happened .
And there sat Old Man Coyote , grinning at him !
They were still staring at Old Man Coyote as if they could n't believe their own eyes when some one cried , ` Look at the horns of Big-Horn ! '
`` Instead of being long and straight , those great horns were curved over and round into almost a circle , and there was no longer danger from their sharp points .
What had happened ?
Why , at just the right instant Old Man Coyote had leaped over Big-Horn , and Big-Horn had butted into that great rock with all his might .
He had hit so hard , biff !
bang !
that he had bent his horns , just as crafty , clever Old Man Coyote had hoped he would .
`` When Old Mother Nature heard of the affair and saw those bent horns , she chuckled at the cleverness of Old Man Coyote and decided to leave those horns just as they were for the safety of Big-Horn 's neighbors .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind_'Why'_Stories.txt.out
I WHY STRIPED CHIPMUNK IS PROUD OF HIS STRIPES The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind are great friends of Striped Chipmunk .
They hurry to call on him the very first thing every morning after Old Mother West Wind has brought them down from the Purple Hills .
They always beg him to stop and play with them , but often he refuses .
But he does it in such a merry way and with such a twinkle in his eyes that the Merry Little Breezes never get cross because he wo n't play .
No , Sir , they never get cross .
If anything , they think just a little bit more of Striped Chipmunk because he wo n't play .
You see , they know that the reason he wo n't play is because he has work to do , and Striped Chipmunk believes and says : `` When there is work for me to do The sooner started , sooner through . ''
So every morning they ask him to play , and every morning they laugh when he says he has too much to do .
Then they rumple up his hair and pull his whiskers and give him last tag and race down to the Smiling Pool to see Grandfather Frog and beg him for a story .
Now Grandfather Frog is very old and very wise , and he knows all about the days when the world was young .
When he is feeling just right , he dearly loves to tell about those long-ago days .
One morning the Merry Little Breezes found Grandfather Frog sitting as usual on his big green lily-pad , and they knew by the way he folded his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat that it was full of foolish green flies .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , please do tell us why it is that Striped Chipmunk has such beautiful stripes on his coat , '' begged one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Chug-a-rum !
They are stripes of honor , '' replied Grandfather Frog , in his deep , gruff voice .
`` Honor !
Oh , how lovely !
Do tell us about it !
Please do ! ''
begged the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
began Grandfather Frog , his big , goggly eyes twinkling .
`` Once upon a time , when the world was young , old Mr. Chipmunk , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Striped Chipmunk , lived very much as Striped Chipmunk does now .
He was always very busy , very busy , indeed , and it was always about his own affairs .
` By attending strictly to my own business , I have no time to meddle with the affairs of my neighbors , and so I keep out of trouble , ' said old Mr. Chipmunk , '' `` Just what Striped Chipmunk says now , '' broke in one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` That shows that he is just as wise as was his grandfather a thousand times removed , about whom I am telling you , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Old Mr. Chipmunk wore just a little , plain brown coat .
It did n't worry him a bit , not a bit , that his coat was just plain brown .
It kept him just as warm as if it were a beautiful red , like that of Mr. Fox , or handsome black and white , like that of Mr. Skunk .
He was perfectly satisfied with his little plain brown coat and took the best of care of it .
`` One day as he was hurrying home to dinner , he climbed up on an old stump to look around and make sure that the way was clear .
