`` And there 's Melita Ross , '' went on Peg .
`` She 's got the same bonnet on she had last time I was in Carlisle church six years ago .
Some folks has the knack of making things last .
But look at the style Mrs. Elmer Brewer wears , will yez ?
Yez would n't think her mother died in the poor-house , would yez , now ? ''
Poor Mrs. Brewer !
From the tip of her smart kid shoes to the dainty cluster of ostrich tips in her bonnet -- she was most immaculately and handsomely arrayed ; but I venture to think she could have taken small pleasure in her fashionable attire that evening .
Some of the unregenerate , including Dan , were shaking with suppressed laughter , but most of the people looked as if they were afraid to smile , lest their turn should come next .
`` There 's old Stephen Grant coming in , '' exclaimed Peg viciously , shaking her floury fist at him , `` and looking as if butter would n't melt in his mouth .
He may be an elder , but he 's a scoundrel just the same .
He set fire to his house to get the insurance and then blamed ME for doing it .
But I got even with him for it .
Oh , yes !
He knows that , and so do I !
He , he ! ''
Peg chuckled quite fiendishly and Stephen Grant tried to look as if nothing had been said .
`` Oh , will the minister never come ? ''
moaned Felicity in my ear .
`` Surely she 'll have to stop then . ''
But the minister did not come and Peg had no intention of stopping .
`` There 's Maria Dean . ''
she resumed .
`` I have n't seen Maria for years .
I never call there for she never seems to have anything to eat in the house .
She was a Clayton and the Claytons never could cook .
Maria sorter looks as if she 'd shrunk in the wash , now , do n't she ?
And there 's Douglas Nicholson .
His brother put rat poison in the family pancakes .
Nice little trick that , was n't it ?
They say it was by mistake .
I hope it WAS a mistake .
His wife is all rigged out in silk .
Yez would n't think to look at her she was married in cotton -- and mighty thankful to get married in anything , it 's my opinion .
There 's Timothy Patterson .
He 's the meanest man alive -- meaner 'n Sam Kinnaird even .
Timothy pays his children five cents apiece to go without their suppers , and then steals the cents out of their pockets after they 've gone to bed .
It 's a fact .
And when his old father died he would n't let his wife put his best shirt on him .
He said his second best was plenty good to be buried in .
That 's another fact . ''
`` I ca n't stand much more of this , '' wailed Felicity .
`` See here , Miss Bowen , you really ought n't to talk like that about people , '' expostulated Peter in a low tone , goaded thereto , despite his awe of Peg , by Felicity 's anguish .
`` Bless you , boy , '' said Peg good-humouredly , `` the only difference between me and other folks is that I say these things out loud and they just think them .
If I told yez all the things I know about the people in this congregation you 'd be amazed .
Have a peppermint ? ''
To our horror Peg produced a handful of peppermint lozenges from the pocket of her skirt and offered us one each .
We did not dare refuse but we each held our lozenge very gingerly in our hands .
`` Eat them , '' commanded Peg rather fiercely .
`` Mother does n't allow us to eat candy in church , '' faltered Felicity .
`` Well , I 've seen just as fine ladies as your ma give their children lozenges in church , '' said Peg loftily .
She put a peppermint in her own mouth and sucked it with gusto .
We were relieved , for she did not talk during the process ; but our relief was of short duration .
A bevy of three very smartly dressed young ladies , sweeping past our pew , started Peg off again .
`` Yez need n't be so stuck up , '' she said , loudly and derisively .
`` Yez was all of yez rocked in a flour barrel .
And there 's old Henry Frewen , still above ground .
I called my parrot after him because their noses were exactly alike .
Look at Caroline Marr , will yez ?
That 's a woman who 'd like pretty well to get married , And there 's Alexander Marr .
He 's a real Christian , anyhow , and so 's his dog .
I can always size up what a man 's religion amounts to by the kind of dog he keeps .
Alexander Marr is a good man . ''
It was a relief to hear Peg speak well of somebody ; but that was the only exception she made .
`` Look at Dave Fraser strutting in , '' she went on .
`` That man has thanked God so often that he is n't like other people that it 's come to be true .
He is n't !
And there 's Susan Frewen .
She 's jealous of everybody .
She 's even jealous of Old Man Rogers because he 's buried in the best spot in the graveyard .
Seth Erskine has the same look he was born with .
They say the Lord made everybody but I believe the devil made all the Erskines . ''
`` She 's getting worse all the time .
What WILL she say next ? ''
whispered poor Felicity .
But her martyrdom was over at last .
The minister appeared in the pulpit and Peg subsided into silence .
She folded her bare , floury arms over her breast and fastened her black eyes on the young preacher .
Her behaviour for the next half-hour was decorum itself , save that when the minister prayed that we might all be charitable in judgment Peg ejaculated `` Amen '' several times , loudly and forcibly , somewhat to the discomfiture of the Young man , to whom Peg was a stranger .
He opened his eyes , glanced at our pew in a startled way , then collected himself and went on .
Peg listened to the sermon , silently and motionlessly , until Mr. Davidson was half through .
Then she suddenly got on her feet .
`` This is too dull for me , '' she exclaimed .
`` I want something more exciting . ''
Mr. Davidson stopped short and Peg marched down the aisle in the midst of complete silence .
Half way down the aisle she turned around and faced the minister .
`` There are so many hypocrites in this church that it is n't fit for decent people to come to , '' she said .
`` Rather than be such hypocrites as most of you are it would be better for you to go miles into the woods and commit suicide . ''
Wheeling about , she strode to the door .
Then she turned for a Parthian shot .
`` I 've felt kind of worried for God sometimes , seeing He has so much to attend to , '' she said , `` but I see I need n't be , so long 's there 's plenty of ministers to tell Him what to do . ''
With that Peg shook the dust of Carlisle church from her feet .
Poor Mr. Davidson resumed his discourse .
Old Elder Bayley , whose attention an earthquake could not have distracted from the sermon , afterwards declared that it was an excellent and edifying exhortation , but I doubt if anyone else in Carlisle church tasted it much or gained much good therefrom .
Certainly we of the King household did not .
We could not even remember the text when we reached home .
Felicity was comfortless .
`` Mr. Davidson would be sure to think she belonged to our family when she was in our pew , '' she said bitterly .
`` Oh , I feel as if I could never get over such a mortification !
Peter , I do wish you would n't go telling people they ought to go to church .
It 's all your fault that this happened . ''
`` Never mind , it will be a good story to tell sometime , '' remarked the Story Girl with relish .
CHAPTER XXII .
THE YANKEE STORM In an August orchard six children and a grown-up were sitting around the pulpit stone .
The grown-up was Miss Reade , who had been up to give the girls their music lesson and had consented to stay to tea , much to the rapture of the said girls , who continued to worship her with unabated and romantic ardour .
To us , over the golden grasses , came the Story Girl , carrying in her hand a single large poppy , like a blood-red chalice filled with the wine of August wizardry .
She proffered it to Miss Reade and , as the latter took it into her singularly slender , beautiful hand , I saw a ring on her third finger .
I noticed it , because I had heard the girls say that Miss Reade never wore rings , not liking them .
It was not a new ring ; it was handsome , but of an old-fashioned design and setting , with a glint of diamonds about a central sapphire .
Later on , when Miss Reade had gone , I asked the Story Girl if she had noticed the ring .
She nodded , but seemed disinclined to say more about it .
`` Look here , Sara , '' I said , `` there 's something about that ring -- something you know . ''
`` I told you once there was a story growing but you would have to wait until it was fully grown , '' she answered .
`` Is Miss Reade going to marry anybody -- anybody we know ? ''
I persisted .
`` Curiosity killed a cat , '' observed the Story Girl coolly .
`` Miss Reade has n't told me that she was going to marry anybody .
You will find out all that is good for you to know in due time . ''
When the Story Girl put on grown-up airs I did not like her so well , and I dropped the subject with a dignity that seemed to amuse her mightily .
She had been away for a week , visiting cousins in Markdale , and she had come home with a new treasure-trove of stories , most of which she had heard from the old sailors of Markdale Harbour .
She had promised that morning to tell us of `` the most tragic event that had ever been known on the north shore , '' and we now reminded her of her promise .
`` Some call it the ` Yankee Storm , ' and others the ` American Gale , ' '' she began , sitting down by Miss Reade and beaming , because the latter put her arm around her waist .
`` It happened nearly forty years ago , in October of 1851 .
Old Mr. Coles at the Harbour told me all about it .
He was a young man then and he says he can never forget that dreadful time .
You know in those days hundreds of American fishing schooners used to come down to the Gulf every summer to fish mackerel .
On one beautiful Saturday night in this October of 1851 , more than one hundred of these vessels could be counted from Markdale Capes .
By Monday night more than seventy of them had been destroyed .
Those which had escaped were mostly those which went into harbour Saturday night , to keep Sunday .
Mr. Coles says the rest stayed outside and fished all day Sunday , same as through the week , and HE says the storm was a judgment on them for doing it .
But he admits that even some of them got into harbour later on and escaped , so it 's hard to know what to think .
But it is certain that on Sunday night there came up a sudden and terrible storm -- the worst , Mr. Coles says , that has ever been known on the north shore .
It lasted for two days and scores of vessels were driven ashore and completely wrecked .
The crews of most of the vessels that went ashore on the sand beaches were saved , but those that struck on the rocks went to pieces and all hands were lost .
For weeks after the storm the north shore was strewn with the bodies of drowned men .
Think of it !
Many of them were unknown and unrecognizable , and they were buried in Markdale graveyard .
Mr. Coles says the schoolmaster who was in Markdale then wrote a poem on the storm and Mr. Coles recited the first two verses to me . ''
` Here are the fishers ' hillside graves , The church beside , the woods around , Below , the hollow moaning waves Where the poor fishermen were drowned . '' '
A sudden tempest the blue welkin tore , The seamen tossed and torn apart Rolled with the seaweed to the shore While landsmen gazed with aching heart . '
`` Mr. Coles could n't remember any more of it .
But the saddest of all the stories of the Yankee Storm was the one about the Franklin Dexter .
The Franklin Dexter went ashore on the Markdale Capes and all on board perished , the Captain and three of his brothers among them .
These four young men were the sons of an old man who lived in Portland , Maine , and when he heard what had happened he came right down to the Island to see if he could find their bodies .
They had all come ashore and had been buried in Markdale graveyard ; but he was determined to take them up and carry them home for burial .
He said he had promised their mother to take her boys home to her and he must do it .
So they were taken up and put on board a sailing vessel at Markdale Harbour to be taken back to Maine , while the father himself went home on a passenger steamer .
The name of the sailing vessel was the Seth Hall , and the captain 's name was Seth Hall , too .
Captain Hall was a dreadfully profane man and used to swear blood-curdling oaths .
On the night he sailed out of Markdale Harbour the old sailors warned him that a storm was brewing and that it would catch him if he did not wait until it was over .
The captain had become very impatient because of several delays he had already met with , and he was in a furious temper .
He swore a wicked oath that he would sail out of Markdale Harbour that night and ` God Almighty Himself should n't catch him . '
He did sail out of the harbour ; and the storm did catch him , and the Seth Hall went down with all hands , the dead and the living finding a watery grave together .
So the poor old mother up in Maine never had her boys brought back to her after all .
Mr. Coles says it seems as if it were foreordained that they should not rest in a grave , but should lie beneath the waves until the day when the sea gives up its dead . '' ''
` They sleep as well beneath that purple tide As others under turf , ' '' quoted Miss Reade softly .
`` I am very thankful , '' she added , `` that I am not one of those whose dear ones ` go down to the sea in ships . '
It seems to me that they have treble their share of this world 's heartache . ''
`` Uncle Stephen was a sailor and he was drowned , '' said Felicity , `` and they say it broke Grandmother King 's heart .
I do n't see why people ca n't be contented on dry land . ''
Cecily 's tears had been dropping on the autograph quilt square she was faithfully embroidering .
She had been diligently collecting names for it ever since the preceding autumn and had a goodly number ; but Kitty Marr had one more and this was certainly a fly in Cecily 's ointment .
`` Besides , one I 've got is n't paid for -- Peg Bowen 's , '' she lamented , `` and I do n't suppose it ever will be , for I 'll never dare to ask her for it . ''
`` I would n't put it on at all , '' said Felicity .
`` Oh , I do n't dare not to .
She 'd be sure to find out I did n't and then she 'd be very angry .
I wish I could get just one more name and then I 'd be contented .
But I do n't know of a single person who has n't been asked already . ''
`` Except Mr. Campbell , '' said Dan .
`` Oh , of course nobody would ask Mr. Campbell .
We all know it would be of no use .
He does n't believe in missions at all -- in fact , he says he detests the very mention of missions -- and he never gives one cent to them . ''
`` All the same , I think he ought to be asked , so that he would n't have the excuse that nobody DID ask him , '' declared Dan .
`` Do you really think so , Dan ? ''
asked Cecily earnestly .
`` Sure , '' said Dan , solemnly .
Dan liked to tease even Cecily a wee bit now and then .
Cecily relapsed into anxious thought , and care sat visibly on her brow for the rest of the day .
Next morning she came to me and said : `` Bev , would you like to go for a walk with me this afternoon ? ''
`` Of course , '' I replied .
`` Any particular where ? ''
`` I 'm going to see Mr. Campbell and ask him for his name for my square , '' said Cecily resolutely .
`` I do n't suppose it will do any good .
He would n't give anything to the library last summer , you remember , till the Story Girl told him that story about his grandmother .
She wo n't go with me this time -- I do n't know why .
I ca n't tell a story and I 'm frightened to death just to think of going to him .
But I believe it is my duty ; and besides I would love to get as many names on my square as Kitty Marr has .
So if you 'll go with me we 'll go this afternoon .
I simply COULD N'T go alone . ''
CHAPTER XXIII .
A MISSIONARY HEROINE Accordingly , that afternoon we bearded the lion in his den .
The road we took was a beautiful one , for we went `` cross lots , '' and we enjoyed it , in spite of the fact that we did not expect the interview with Mr. Campbell to be a very pleasant one .
To be sure , he had been quite civil on the occasion of our last call upon him , but the Story Girl had been with us then and had beguiled him into good-humour and generosity by the magic of her voice and personality .
We had no such ally now , and Mr. Campbell was known to be virulently opposed to missions in any shape or form .
`` I do n't know whether it would have been any better if I could have put on my good clothes , '' said Cecily , with a rueful glance at her print dress , which , though neat and clean , was undeniably faded and RATHER short and tight .
`` The Story Girl said it would , and I wanted to , but mother would n't let me .
She said it was all nonsense , and Mr. Campbell would never notice what I had on . ''
`` It 's my opinion that Mr. Campbell notices a good deal more than you 'd think for , '' I said sagely .
`` Well , I wish our call was over , '' sighed Cecily .
`` I ca n't tell you how I dread it . ''
`` Now , see here , Sis , '' I said cheerfully , `` let 's not think about it till we get there .
It 'll only spoil our walk and do no good .
Let 's just forget it and enjoy ourselves . ''
`` I 'll try , '' agreed Cecily , `` but it 's ever so much easier to preach than to practise . ''
Our way lay first over a hill top , gallantly plumed with golden rod , where cloud shadows drifted over us like a gypsying crew .
Carlisle , in all its ripely tinted length and breadth , lay below us , basking in the August sunshine , that spilled over the brim of the valley to the far-off Markdale Harbour , cupped in its harvest-golden hills .
Then came a little valley overgrown with the pale purple bloom of thistles and elusively haunted with their perfume .
You say that thistles have no perfume ?
Go you to a brook hollow where they grow some late summer twilight at dewfall ; and on the still air that rises suddenly to meet you will come a waft of faint , aromatic fragrance , wondrously sweet and evasive , the distillation of that despised thistle bloom .
Beyond this the path wound through a forest of fir , where a wood wind wove its murmurous spell and a wood brook dimpled pellucidly among the shadows -- the dear , companionable , elfin shadows -- that lurked under the low growing boughs .
Along the edges of that winding path grew banks of velvet green moss , starred with clusters of pigeon berries .
Pigeon berries are not to be eaten .
They are woolly , tasteless things .
But they are to be looked at in their glowing scarlet .
They are the jewels with which the forest of cone-bearers loves to deck its brown breast .
Cecily gathered some and pinned them on hers , but they did not become her .
I thought how witching the Story Girl 's brown curls would have looked twined with those brilliant clusters .
Perhaps Cecily was thinking of it , too , for she presently said , `` Bev , do n't you think the Story Girl is changing somehow ? ''
`` There are times -- just times -- when she seems to belong more among the grown-ups than among us , '' I said , reluctantly , `` especially when she puts on her bridesmaid dress . ''
`` Well , she 's the oldest of us , and when you come to think of it , she 's fifteen , -- that 's almost grown-up , '' sighed Cecily .
Then she added , with sudden vehemence , `` I hate the thought of any of us growing up .
Felicity says she just longs to be grown-up , but I do n't , not a bit .
I wish I could just stay a little girl for ever -- and have you and Felix and all the others for playmates right along .
I do n't know how it is -- but whenever I think of being grown-up I seem to feel tired . ''
Something about Cecily 's speech -- or the wistful look that had crept into her sweet brown eyes -- made me feel vaguely uncomfortable ; I was glad that we were at the end of our journey , with Mr. Campbell 's big house before us , and his dog sitting gravely at the veranda steps .
`` Oh , dear , '' said Cecily , with a shiver , `` I 'd been hoping that dog would n't be around . ''
`` He never bites , '' I assured her .
`` Perhaps he does n't , but he always looks as if he was going to , '' rejoined Cecily .
The dog continued to look , and , as we edged gingerly past him and up the veranda steps , he turned his head and kept on looking .
What with Mr. Campbell before us and the dog behind , Cecily was trembling with nervousness ; but perhaps it was as well that the dour brute was there , else I verily believe she would have turned and fled shamelessly when we heard steps in the hall .
It was Mr. Campbell 's housekeeper who came to the door , however ; she ushered us pleasantly into the sitting-room where Mr. Campbell was reading .
He laid down his book with a slight frown and said nothing at all in response to our timid `` good afternoon . ''
But after we had sat for a few minutes in wretched silence , wishing ourselves a thousand miles away , he said , with a chuckle , `` Well , is it the school library again ? ''
Cecily had remarked as we were coming that what she dreaded most of all was introducing the subject ; but Mr. Campbell had given her a splendid opening , and she plunged wildly in at once , rattling her explanation off nervously with trembling voice and flushed cheeks .
`` No , it 's our Mission Band autograph quilt , Mr. Campbell .
There are to be as many squares in it as there are members in the Band .
Each one has a square and is collecting names for it .
If you want to have your name on the quilt you pay five cents , and if you want to have it right in the round spot in the middle of the square you must pay ten cents .
Then when we have got all the names we can we will embroider them on the squares .
The money is to go to the little girl our Band is supporting in Korea .
I heard that nobody had asked you , so I thought perhaps you would give me your name for my square . ''
Mr. Campbell drew his black brows together in a scowl .
`` Stuff and nonsense ! ''
he exclaimed angrily .
`` I do n't believe in Foreign Missions -- do n't believe in them at all .
I never give a cent to them . ''
`` Five cents is n't a very large sum , '' said Cecily earnestly .
Mr. Campbell 's scowl disappeared and he laughed .
`` It would n't break me , '' he admitted , `` but it 's the principle of the thing .
And as for that Mission Band of yours , if it was n't for the fun you get out of it , catch one of you belonging .
You do n't really care a rap more for the heathen than I do . ''
`` Oh , we do , '' protested Cecily .
`` We do think of all the poor little children in Korea , and we like to think we are helping them , if it 's ever so little .
We ARE in earnest , Mr. Campbell -- indeed we are . ''
`` Do n't believe it -- do n't believe a word of it , '' said Mr. Campbell impolitely .
`` You 'll do things that are nice and interesting .
You 'll get up concerts , and chase people about for autographs and give money your parents give you and that does n't cost you either time or labour .
But you would n't do anything you disliked for the heathen children -- you would n't make any real sacrifice for them -- catch you ! ''
`` Indeed we would , '' cried Cecily , forgetting her timidity in her zeal .
`` I just wish I had a chance to prove it to you . ''
`` You do , eh ?
Come , now , I 'll take you at your word .
I 'll test you .
Tomorrow is Communion Sunday and the church will be full of folks and they 'll all have their best clothes on .
If you go to church tomorrow in the very costume you have on at present , without telling anyone why you do so , until it is all over , I 'll give you -- why , I vow I 'll give you five dollars for that quilt of yours . ''
Poor Cecily !
To go to church in a faded print dress , with a shabby little old sun-hat and worn shoes !
It was very cruel of Mr. Campbell .
`` I -- I do n't think mother would let me , '' she faltered .
Her tormentor smiled grimly .
`` It 's not hard to find some excuse , '' he said sarcastically .
Cecily crimsoned and sat up facing Mr. Campbell spunkily .
`` It 's NOT an excuse , '' she said .
`` If mother will let me go to church like this I 'll go .
But I 'll have to tell HER why , Mr. Campbell , because I 'm certain she 'd never let me if I did n't . ''
`` Oh , you can tell all your own family , '' said Mr. Campbell , `` but remember , none of them must tell it outside until Sunday is over .
If they do , I 'll be sure to find it out and then our bargain is off .
If I see you in church tomorrow , dressed as you are now , I 'll give you my name and five dollars .
But I wo n't see you .
You 'll shrink when you 've had time to think it over . ''
`` I sha 'n' t , '' said Cecily resolutely .
`` Well , we 'll see .
And now come out to the barn with me .
I 've got the prettiest little drove of calves out there you ever saw .
I want you to see them . ''
Mr. Campbell took us all over his barns and was very affable .
He had beautiful horses , cows and sheep , and I enjoyed seeing them .
I do n't think Cecily did , however .
She was very quiet and even Mr. Campbell 's handsome new span of dappled grays failed to arouse any enthusiasm in her .
She was already in bitter anticipation living over the martyrdom of the morrow .
On the way home she asked me seriously if I thought Mr. Campbell would go to heaven when he died .
`` Of course he will , '' I said .
`` Is n't he a member of the church ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but I ca n't imagine him fitting into heaven .
You know he is n't really fond of anything but live stock . ''
`` He 's fond of teasing people , I guess , '' I responded .
`` Are you really going to church to-morrow in that dress , Sis ? ''
`` If mother 'll let me I 'll have to , '' said poor Cecily .
`` I wo n't let Mr. Campbell triumph over me .
And I DO want to have as many names as Kitty has .
And I DO want to help the poor little Korean children .
But it will be simply dreadful .
I do n't know whether I hope mother will or not . ''
I did not believe she would , but Aunt Janet sometimes could be depended on for the unexpected .
She laughed and told Cecily she could please herself .
Felicity was in a rage over it , and declared SHE would n't go to church if Cecily went in such a rig .
Dan sarcastically inquired if all she went to church for was to show off her fine clothes and look at other people 's ; then they quarrelled and did n't speak to each other for two days , much to Cecily 's distress .
I suspect poor Sis wished devoutly that it might rain the next day ; but it was gloriously fine .
We were all waiting in the orchard for the Story Girl who had not begun to dress for church until Cecily and Felicity were ready .
Felicity was her prettiest in flower-trimmed hat , crisp muslin , floating ribbons and trim black slippers .
Poor Cecily stood beside her mute and pale , in her faded school garb and heavy copper-toed boots .
But her face , if pale , was very determined .
Cecily , having put her hand to the plough , was not of those who turn back .
`` You do look just awful , '' said Felicity .
`` I do n't care -- I 'm going to sit in Uncle James ' pew .
I WO N'T sit with you .
There will be so many strangers there , and all the Markdale people , and what will they think of you ?
Some of them will never know the reason , either . ''
`` I wish the Story Girl would hurry , '' was all poor Cecily said .
`` We 're going to be late .
It would n't have been quite so hard if I could have got there before anyone and slipped quietly into our pew . ''
`` Here she comes at last , '' said Dan .
`` Why -- what 's she got on ? ''
The Story Girl joined us with a quizzical smile on her face .
Dan whistled .
Cecily 's pale cheeks flushed with understanding and gratitude .
The Story Girl wore her school print dress and hat also , and was gloveless and heavy shod .
`` You 're not going to have to go through this all alone , Cecily , '' she said .
`` Oh , it wo n't be half so hard now , '' said Cecily , with a long breath of relief .
I fancy it was hard enough even then .
The Story Girl did not care a whit , but Cecily rather squirmed under the curious glances that were cast at her .
She afterwards told me that she really did not think she could have endured it if she had been alone .
Mr. Campbell met us under the elms in the churchyard , with a twinkle in his eye .
`` Well , you did it , Miss , '' he said to Cecily , `` but you should have been alone .
That was what I meant .
I suppose you think you 've cheated me nicely . ''
`` No , she does n't , '' spoke up the Story Girl undauntedly .
`` She was all dressed and ready to come before she knew I was going to dress the same way .
So she kept her bargain faithfully , Mr. Campbell , and I think you were cruel to make her do it . ''
`` You do , eh ?
Well , well , I hope you 'll forgive me .
I did n't think she 'd do it -- I was sure feminine vanity would win the day over missionary zeal .
It seems it did n't -- though how much was pure missionary zeal and how much just plain King spunk I 'm doubtful .
I 'll keep my promise , Miss. .
You shall have your five dollars , and mind you put my name in the round space .
No five-cent corners for me . ''
CHAPTER XXIV .
A TANTALIZING REVELATION `` I shall have something to tell you in the orchard this evening , '' said the Story Girl at breakfast one morning .
Her eyes were very bright and excited .
She looked as if she had not slept a great deal .
She had spent the previous evening with Miss Reade and had not returned until the rest of us were in bed .
Miss Reade had finished giving music lessons and was going home in a few days .
Cecily and Felicity were in despair over this and mourned as those without comfort .
But the Story Girl , who had been even more devoted to Miss Reade than either of them , had not , as I noticed , expressed any regret and seemed to be very cheerful over the whole matter .
`` Why ca n't you tell it now ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` Because the evening is the nicest time to tell things in .
I only mentioned it now so that you would have something interesting to look forward to all day . ''
`` Is it about Miss Reade ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` Never mind . ''
`` I 'll bet she 's going to be married , '' I exclaimed , remembering the ring .
`` Is she ? ''
cried Felicity and Cecily together .
The Story Girl threw an annoyed glance at me .
She did not like to have her dramatic announcements forestalled .
`` I do n't say that it is about Miss Reade or that it is n't .
You must just wait till the evening . ''
`` I wonder what it is , '' speculated Cecily , as the Story Girl left the room .
`` I do n't believe it 's much of anything , '' said Felicity , beginning to clear away the breakfast dishes .
`` The Story Girl always likes to make so much out of so little .
Anyhow , I do n't believe Miss Reade is going to be married .
She has n't any beaus around here and Mrs. Armstrong says she 's sure she does n't correspond with anybody .
Besides , if she was she would n't be likely to tell the Story Girl . ''
`` Oh , she might .
They 're such friends , you know , '' said Cecily .
`` Miss Reade is no better friends with her than she is with me and you , '' retorted Felicity .
`` No , but sometimes it seems to me that she 's a different kind of friend with the Story Girl than she is with me and you , '' reflected Cecily .
`` I ca n't just explain what I mean . ''
`` No wonder .
Such nonsense , '' sniffed Felicity .
`` It 's only some girl 's secret , anyway , '' said Dan , loftily .
`` I do n't feel much interest in it . ''
But he was on hand with the rest of us that evening , interest or no interest , in Uncle Stephen 's Walk , where the ripening apples were beginning to glow like jewels among the boughs .
`` Now , are you going to tell us your news ? ''
asked Felicity impatiently .
`` Miss Reade IS going to be married , '' said the Story Girl .
`` She told me so last night .
She is going to be married in a fortnight 's time . ''
`` Who to ? ''
exclaimed the girls .
`` To '' -- the Story Girl threw a defiant glance at me as if to say , `` You ca n't spoil the surprise of THIS , anyway , '' -- `` to -- the Awkward Man . ''
For a few moments amazement literally held us dumb .
`` You 're not in earnest , Sara Stanley ? ''
gasped Felicity at last .
`` Indeed I am .
I thought you 'd be astonished .
But I was n't .
I 've suspected it all summer , from little things I 've noticed .
Do n't you remember that evening last spring when I went a piece with Miss Reade and told you when I came back that a story was growing ?
I guessed it from the way the Awkward Man looked at her when I stopped to speak to him over his garden fence . ''
`` But -- the Awkward Man ! ''
said Felicity helplessly .
`` It does n't seem possible .
Did Miss Reade tell you HERSELF ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` I suppose it must be true then .
But how did it ever come about ?
He 's SO shy and awkward .
How did he ever manage to get up enough spunk to ask her to marry him ? ''
`` Maybe she asked him , '' suggested Dan .
The Story Girl looked as if she might tell if she would .
`` I believe that WAS the way of it , '' I said , to draw her on .
`` Not exactly , '' she said reluctantly .
`` I know all about it but I ca n't tell you .
I guessed part from things I 've seen -- and Miss Reade told me a good deal -- and the Awkward Man himself told me his side of it as we came home last night .
I met him just as I left Mr. Armstrong 's and we were together as far as his house .
It was dark and he just talked on as if he were talking to himself -- I think he forgot I was there at all , once he got started .
He has never been shy or awkward with me , but he never talked as he did last night . ''
`` You might tell us what he said , '' urged Cecily .
`` We 'd never tell . ''
The Story Girl shook her head .
`` No , I ca n't .
You would n't understand .
Besides , I could n't tell it just right .
It 's one of the things that are hardest to tell .
I 'd spoil it if I told it -- now .
Perhaps some day I 'll be able to tell it properly .
It 's very beautiful -- but it might sound very ridiculous if it was n't told just exactly the right way . ''
`` I do n't know what you mean , and I do n't believe you know yourself , '' said Felicity pettishly .
`` All that I can make out is that Miss Reade is going to marry Jasper Dale , and I do n't like the idea one bit .
She is so beautiful and sweet .
I thought she 'd marry some dashing young man .
Jasper Dale must be nearly twenty years older than her -- and he 's so queer and shy -- and such a hermit . ''
`` Miss Reade is perfectly happy , '' said the Story Girl .
`` She thinks the Awkward Man is lovely -- and so he is .
You do n't know him , but I do . ''
`` Well , you need n't put on such airs about it , '' sniffed Felicity .
`` I am not putting on any airs .
But it 's true .
Miss Reade and I are the only people in Carlisle who really know the Awkward Man .
Nobody else ever got behind his shyness to find out just what sort of a man he is . ''
`` When are they to be married ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` In a fortnight 's time .
And then they are coming right back to live at Golden Milestone .
Wo n't it be lovely to have Miss Reade always so near us ? ''
`` I wonder what she 'll think about the mystery of Golden Milestone , '' remarked Felicity .
Golden Milestone was the beautiful name the Awkward Man had given his home ; and there was a mystery about it , as readers of the first volume of these chronicles will recall .
`` She knows all about the mystery and thinks it perfectly lovely -- and so do I , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Do YOU know the secret of the locked room ? ''
cried Cecily .
`` Yes , the Awkward Man told me all about it last night .
I told you I 'd find out the mystery some time . ''
`` And what is it ? ''
`` I ca n't tell you that either . ''
`` I think you 're hateful and mean , '' exclaimed Felicity .
`` It has n't anything to do with Miss Reade , so I think you might tell us . ''
`` It has something to do with Miss Reade .
It 's all about her . ''
`` Well , I do n't see how that can be when the Awkward Man never saw or heard of Miss Reade until she came to Carlisle in the spring , '' said Felicity incredulously , `` and he 's had that locked room for years . ''
`` I ca n't explain it to you -- but it 's just as I 've said , '' responded the Story Girl .
`` Well , it 's a very queer thing , '' retorted Felicity .
`` The name in the books in the room was Alice -- and Miss Reade 's name is Alice , '' marvelled Cecily .
`` Did he know her before she came here ? ''
`` Mrs. Griggs says that room has been locked for ten years .
Ten years ago Miss Reade was just a little girl of ten .
SHE could n't be the Alice of the books , '' argued Felicity .
`` I wonder if she 'll wear the blue silk dress , '' said Sara Ray .
`` And what will she do about the picture , if it is n't hers ? ''
added Cecily .
`` The picture could n't be hers , or Mrs. Griggs would have known her for the same when she came to Carlisle , '' said Felix .
`` I 'm going to stop wondering about it , '' exclaimed Felicity crossly , aggravated by the amused smile with which the Story Girl was listening to the various speculations .
`` I think Sara is just as mean as mean when she wo n't tell us . ''
`` I ca n't , '' repeated the Story Girl patiently .
`` You said one time you had an idea who ` Alice ' was , '' I said .
`` Was your idea anything like the truth ? ''
`` Yes , I guessed pretty nearly right . ''
`` Do you suppose they 'll keep the room locked after they are married ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` Oh , no .
I can tell you that much .
It is to be Miss Reade 's own particular sitting room . ''
`` Why , then , perhaps we 'll see it some time ourselves , when we go to see Miss Reade , '' cried Cecily .
`` I 'd be frightened to go into it , '' confessed Sara Ray .
`` I hate things with mysteries .
They always make me nervous . ''
`` I love them .
They 're so exciting , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Just think , this will be the second wedding of people we know , '' reflected Cecily .
`` Is n't that interesting ? ''
`` I only hope the next thing wo n't be a funeral , '' remarked Sara Ray gloomily .
`` There were three lighted lamps on our kitchen table last night , and Judy Pineau says that 's a sure sign of a funeral . ''
`` Well , there are funerals going on all the time , '' said Dan .
`` But it means the funeral of somebody you know .
I do n't believe in it -- MUCH -- but Judy says she 's seen it come true time and again .
I hope if it does it wo n't be anybody we know very well .
But I hope it 'll be somebody I know a LITTLE , because then I might get to the funeral .
I 'd just love to go to a funeral . ''
`` That 's a dreadful thing to say , '' commented Felicity in a shocked tone .
Sara Ray looked bewildered .
`` I do n't see what is dreadful in it , '' she protested .
`` People do n't go to funerals for the fun of it , '' said Felicity severely .
`` And you just as good as said you hoped somebody you knew would die so you 'd get to the funeral . ''
`` No , no , I did n't .
I did n't mean that AT ALL , Felicity .
I do n't want anybody to die ; but what I meant was , if anybody I knew HAD to die there might be a chance to go to the funeral .
I 've never been to a single funeral yet , and it must be so interesting . ''
`` Well , do n't mix up talk about funerals with talk about weddings , '' said Felicity .
`` It is n't lucky .
I think Miss Reade is simply throwing herself away , but I hope she 'll be happy .
And I hope the Awkward Man will manage to get married without making some awful blunder , but it 's more than I expect . ''
`` The ceremony is to be very private , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I 'd like to see them the day they appear out in church , '' chuckled Dan .
`` How 'll he ever manage to bring her in and show her into the pew ?
I 'll bet he 'll go in first -- or tramp on her dress -- or fall over his feet . ''
`` Maybe he wo n't go to church at all the first Sunday and she 'll have to go alone , '' said Peter .
`` That happened in Markdale .
A man was too bashful to go to church the first time after getting married , and his wife went alone till he got used to the idea . ''
`` They may do things like that in Markdale but that is not the way people behave in Carlisle , '' said Felicity loftily .
Seeing the Story Girl slipping away with a disapproving face I joined her .
`` What is the matter , Sara ? ''
I asked .
`` I hate to hear them talking like that about Miss Reade and Mr. Dale , '' she answered vehemently .
`` It 's really all so beautiful -- but they make it seem silly and absurd , somehow . ''
`` You might tell me all about it , Sara , '' I insinuated .
`` I would n't tell -- and I 'd understand . ''
`` Yes , I think you would , '' she said thoughtfully .
`` But I ca n't tell it even to you because I ca n't tell it well enough yet .
I 've a feeling that there 's only one way to tell it -- and I do n't know the way yet .
Some day I 'll know it -- and then I 'll tell you , Bev . ''
Long , long after she kept her word .
Forty years later I wrote to her , across the leagues of land and sea that divided us , and told her that Jasper Dale was dead ; and I reminded her of her old promise and asked its fulfilment .
In reply she sent me the written love story of Jasper Dale and Alice Reade .
Now , when Alice sleeps under the whispering elms of the old Carlisle churchyard , beside the husband of her youth , that story may be given , in all its old-time sweetness , to the world .
CHAPTER XXV .
THE LOVE STORY OF THE AWKWARD MAN -LRB- Written by the Story Girl -RRB- Jasper Dale lived alone in the old homestead which he had named Golden Milestone .
In Carlisle this giving one 's farm a name was looked upon as a piece of affectation ; but if a place must be named why not give it a sensible name with some meaning to it ?
Why Golden Milestone , when Pinewood or Hillslope or , if you wanted to be very fanciful , Ivy Lodge , might be had for the taking ?
He had lived alone at Golden Milestone since his mother 's death ; he had been twenty then and he was close upon forty now , though he did not look it .
But neither could it be said that he looked young ; he had never at any time looked young with common youth ; there had always been something in his appearance that stamped him as different from the ordinary run of men , and , apart from his shyness , built up an intangible , invisible barrier between him and his kind .
He had lived all his life in Carlisle ; and all the Carlisle people knew of or about him -- although they thought they knew everything -- was that he was painfully , abnormally shy .
He never went anywhere except to church ; he never took part in Carlisle 's simple social life ; even with most men he was distant and reserved ; as for women , he never spoke to or looked at them ; if one spoke to him , even if she were a matronly old mother in Israel , he was at once in an agony of painful blushes .
He had no friends in the sense of companions ; to all outward appearance his life was solitary and devoid of any human interest .
He had no housekeeper ; but his old house , furnished as it had been in his mother 's lifetime , was cleanly and daintily kept .
The quaint rooms were as free from dust and disorder as a woman could have had them .
This was known , because Jasper Dale occasionally had his hired man 's wife , Mrs. Griggs , in to scrub for him .
On the morning she was expected he betook himself to woods and fields , returning only at night-fall .
During his absence Mrs. Griggs was frankly wont to explore the house from cellar to attic , and her report of its condition was always the same -- `` neat as wax . ''
To be sure , there was one room that was always locked against her , the west gable , looking out on the garden and the hill of pines beyond .
But Mrs. Griggs knew that in the lifetime of Jasper Dale 's mother it had been unfurnished .
She supposed it still remained so , and felt no especial curiosity concerning it , though she always tried the door .
Jasper Dale had a good farm , well cultivated ; he had a large garden where he worked most of his spare time in summer ; it was supposed that he read a great deal , since the postmistress declared that he was always getting books and magazines by mail .
He seemed well contented with his existence and people let him alone , since that was the greatest kindness they could do him .
It was unsupposable that he would ever marry ; nobody ever had supposed it .
`` Jasper Dale never so much as THOUGHT about a woman , '' Carlisle oracles declared .
Oracles , however , are not always to be trusted .
One day Mrs. Griggs went away from the Dale place with a very curious story , which she diligently spread far and wide .
It made a good deal of talk , but people , although they listened eagerly , and wondered and questioned , were rather incredulous about it .
They thought Mrs. Griggs must be drawing considerably upon her imagination ; there were not lacking those who declared that she had invented the whole account , since her reputation for strict veracity was not wholly unquestioned .
Mrs. Griggs 's story was as follows : -- One day she found the door of the west gable unlocked .
She went in , expecting to see bare walls and a collection of odds and ends .
Instead she found herself in a finely furnished room .
Delicate lace curtains hung before the small , square , broad-silled windows .
The walls were adorned with pictures in much finer taste than Mrs. Griggs could appreciate .
There was a bookcase between the windows filled with choicely bound books .
Beside it stood a little table with a very dainty work-basket on it .
By the basket Mrs. Griggs saw a pair of tiny scissors and a silver thimble .
A wicker rocker , comfortable with silk cushions , was near it .
Above the bookcase a woman 's picture hung -- a water-colour , if Mrs. Griggs had but known it -- representing a pale , very sweet face , with large , dark eyes and a wistful expression under loose masses of black , lustrous hair .
Just beneath the picture , on the top shelf of the bookcase , was a vaseful of flowers .
Another vaseful stood on the table beside the basket .
All this was astonishing enough .
But what puzzled Mrs. Griggs completely was the fact that a woman 's dress was hanging over a chair before the mirror -- a pale blue , silken affair .
And on the floor beside it were two little blue satin slippers !
Good Mrs. Griggs did not leave the room until she had thoroughly explored it , even to shaking out the blue dress and discovering it to be a tea-gown -- wrapper , she called it .
But she found nothing to throw any light on the mystery .
The fact that the simple name `` Alice '' was written on the fly-leaves of all the books only deepened it , for it was a name unknown in the Dale family .
In this puzzled state she was obliged to depart , nor did she ever find the door unlocked again ; and , discovering that people thought she was romancing when she talked about the mysterious west gable at Golden Milestone , she indignantly held her peace concerning the whole affair .
But Mrs. Griggs had told no more than the simple truth .
Jasper Dale , under all his shyness and aloofness , possessed a nature full of delicate romance and poesy , which , denied expression in the common ways of life , bloomed out in the realm of fancy and imagination .
Left alone , just when the boy 's nature was deepening into the man 's , he turned to this ideal kingdom for all he believed the real world could never give him .
Love -- a strange , almost mystical love -- played its part here for him .
He shadowed forth to himself the vision of a woman , loving and beloved ; he cherished it until it became almost as real to him as his own personality and he gave this dream woman the name he liked best -- Alice .
In fancy he walked and talked with her , spoke words of love to her , and heard words of love in return .
When he came from work at the close of day she met him at his threshold in the twilight -- a strange , fair , starry shape , as elusive and spiritual as a blossom reflected in a pool by moonlight -- with welcome on her lips and in her eyes .
One day , when he was in Charlottetown on business , he had been struck by a picture in the window of a store .
It was strangely like the woman of his dream love .
He went in , awkward and embarrassed , and bought it .
When he took it home he did not know where to put it .
It was out of place among the dim old engravings of bewigged portraits and conventional landscapes on the walls of Golden Milestone .
As he pondered the matter in his garden that evening he had an inspiration .
The sunset , flaming on the windows of the west gable , kindled them into burning rose .
Amid the splendour he fancied Alice 's fair face peeping archly down at him from the room .
The inspiration came then .
It should be her room ; he would fit it up for her ; and her picture should hang there .
He was all summer carrying out his plan .
Nobody must know or suspect , so he must go slowly and secretly .
One by one the furnishings were purchased and brought home under cover of darkness .
He arranged them with his own hands .
He bought the books he thought she would like best and wrote her name in them ; he got the little feminine knick-knacks of basket and thimble .
Finally he saw in a store a pale blue tea-gown and the satin slippers .
He had always fancied her as dressed in blue .
He bought them and took them home to her room .
Thereafter it was sacred to her ; he always knocked on its door before he entered ; he kept it sweet with fresh flowers ; he sat there in the purple summer evenings and talked aloud to her or read his favourite books to her .
In his fancy she sat opposite to him in her rocker , clad in the trailing blue gown , with her head leaning on one slender hand , as white as a twilight star .
But Carlisle people knew nothing of this -- would have thought him tinged with mild lunacy if they had known .
To them , he was just the shy , simple farmer he appeared .
They never knew or guessed at the real Jasper Dale .
One spring Alice Reade came to teach music in Carlisle .
Her pupils worshipped her , but the grown people thought she was rather too distant and reserved .
They had been used to merry , jolly girls who joined eagerly in the social life of the place .
Alice Reade held herself aloof from it -- not disdainfully , but as one to whom these things were of small importance .
She was very fond of books and solitary rambles ; she was not at all shy but she was as sensitive as a flower ; and after a time Carlisle people were content to let her live her own life and no longer resented her unlikeness to themselves .
She boarded with the Armstrongs , who lived beyond Golden Milestone around the hill of pines .
Until the snow disappeared she went out to the main road by the long Armstrong lane ; but when spring came she was wont to take a shorter way , down the pine hill , across the brook , past Jasper Dale 's garden , and out through his lane .
And one day , as she went by , Jasper Dale was working in his garden .
He was on his knees in a corner , setting out a bunch of roots -- an unsightly little tangle of rainbow possibilities .
It was a still spring morning ; the world was green with young leaves ; a little wind blew down from the pines and lost itself willingly among the budding delights of the garden .
The grass opened eyes of blue violets .
The sky was high and cloudless , turquoise-blue , shading off into milkiness on the far horizons .
Birds were singing along the brook valley .
Rollicking robins were whistling joyously in the pines .
Jasper Dale 's heart was filled to over-flowing with a realization of all the virgin loveliness around him ; the feeling in his soul had the sacredness of a prayer .
At this moment he looked up and saw Alice Reade .
She was standing outside the garden fence , in the shadow of a great pine tree , looking not at him , for she was unaware of his presence , but at the virginal bloom of the plum trees in a far corner , with all her delight in it outblossoming freely in her face .
For a moment Jasper Dale believed that his dream love had taken visible form before him .
She was like -- so like ; not in feature , perhaps , but in grace and colouring -- the grace of a slender , lissome form and the colouring of cloudy hair and wistful , dark gray eyes , and curving red mouth ; and more than all , she was like her in expression -- in the subtle revelation of personality exhaling from her like perfume from a flower .
It was as if his own had come to him at last and his whole soul suddenly leaped out to meet and welcome her .
Then her eyes fell upon him and the spell was broken .
Jasper remained kneeling mutely there , shy man once more , crimson with blushes , a strange , almost pitiful creature in his abject confusion .
A little smile flickered about the delicate corners of her mouth , but she turned and walked swiftly away down the lane .
Jasper looked after her with a new , painful sense of loss and loveliness .
It had been agony to feel her conscious eyes upon him , but he realized now that there had been a strange sweetness in it , too .
It was still greater pain to watch her going from him .
He thought she must be the new music teacher but he did not even know her name .
She had been dressed in blue , too -- a pale , dainty blue ; but that was of course ; he had known she must wear it ; and he was sure her name must be Alice .
When , later on , he discovered that it was , he felt no surprise .
He carried some mayflowers up to the west gable and put them under the picture .
But the charm had gone out of the tribute ; and looking at the picture , he thought how scant was the justice it did her .
Her face was so much sweeter , her eyes so much softer , her hair so much more lustrous .
The soul of his love had gone from the room and from the picture and from his dreams .
When he tried to think of the Alice he loved he saw , not the shadowy spirit occupant of the west gable , but the young girl who had stood under the pine , beautiful with the beauty of moonlight , of starshine on still water , of white , wind-swayed flowers growing in silent , shadowy places .
He did not then realize what this meant : had he realized it he would have suffered bitterly ; as it was he felt only a vague discomfort -- a curious sense of loss and gain commingled .
He saw her again that afternoon on her way home .
She did not pause by the garden but walked swiftly past .
Thereafter , every day for a week he watched unseen to see her pass his home .
Once a little child was with her , clinging to her hand .
No child had ever before had any part in the shy man 's dream life .
But that night in the twilight the vision of the rocking-chair was a girl in a blue print dress , with a little , golden-haired shape at her knee -- a shape that lisped and prattled and called her `` mother ; '' and both of them were his .
It was the next day that he failed for the first time to put flowers in the west gable .
Instead , he cut a loose handful of daffodils and , looking furtively about him as if committing a crime , he laid them across the footpath under the pine .
She must pass that way ; her feet would crush them if she failed to see them .
Then he slipped back into his garden , half exultant , half repentant .
From a safe retreat he saw her pass by and stoop to lift his flowers .
Thereafter he put some in the same place every day .
When Alice Reade saw the flowers she knew at once who had put them there , and divined that they were for her .
She lifted them tenderly in much surprise and pleasure .
She had heard all about Jasper Dale and his shyness ; but before she had heard about him she had seen him in church and liked him .
She thought his face and his dark blue eyes beautiful ; she even liked the long brown hair that Carlisle people laughed at .
That he was quite different from other people she had understood at once , but she thought the difference in his favour .
Perhaps her sensitive nature divined and responded to the beauty in his .
At least , in her eyes Jasper Dale was never a ridiculous figure .
When she heard the story of the west gable , which most people disbelieved , she believed it , although she did not understand it .
It invested the shy man with interest and romance .
She felt that she would have liked , out of no impertinent curiosity , to solve the mystery ; she believed that it contained the key to his character .
Thereafter , every day she found flowers under the pine tree ; she wished to see Jasper to thank him , unaware that he watched her daily from the screen of shrubbery in his garden ; but it was some time before she found the opportunity .
One evening she passed when he , not expecting her , was leaning against his garden fence with a book in his hand .
She stopped under the pine .
`` Mr. Dale , '' she said softly , `` I want to thank you for your flowers . ''
Jasper , startled , wished that he might sink into the ground .
His anguish of embarrassment made her smile a little .
He could not speak , so she went on gently .
`` It has been so good of you .
They have given me so much pleasure -- I wish you could know how much . ''
`` It was nothing -- nothing , '' stammered Jasper .
His book had fallen on the ground at her feet , and she picked it up and held it out to him .
`` So you like Ruskin , '' she said .
`` I do , too .
But I have n't read this . ''
`` If you -- would care -- to read it -- you may have it , '' Jasper contrived to say .
She carried the book away with her .
He did not again hide when she passed , and when she brought the book back they talked a little about it over the fence .
He lent her others , and got some from her in return ; they fell into the habit of discussing them .
Jasper did not find it hard to talk to her now ; it seemed as if he were talking to his dream Alice , and it came strangely natural to him .
He did not talk volubly , but Alice thought what he did say was worth while .
His words lingered in her memory and made music .
She always found his flowers under the pine , and she always wore some of them , but she did not know if he noticed this or not .
One evening Jasper walked shyly with her from his gate up the pine hill .
After that he always walked that far with her .
She would have missed him much if he had failed to do so ; yet it did not occur to her that she was learning to love him .
She would have laughed with girlish scorn at the idea .
She liked him very much ; she thought his nature beautiful in its simplicity and purity ; in spite of his shyness she felt more delightfully at home in his society than in that of any other person she had ever met .
He was one of those rare souls whose friendship is at once a pleasure and a benediction , showering light from their own crystal clearness into all the dark corners in the souls of others , until , for the time being at least , they reflected his own nobility .
But she never thought of love .
Like other girls she had her dreams of a possible Prince Charming , young and handsome and debonair .
It never occurred to her that he might be found in the shy , dreamy recluse of Golden Milestone .
In August came a day of gold and blue .
Alice Reade , coming through the trees , with the wind blowing her little dark love-locks tricksily about under her wide blue hat , found a fragrant heap of mignonette under the pine .
She lifted it and buried her face in it , drinking in the wholesome , modest perfume .
She had hoped Jasper would be in his garden , since she wished to ask him for a book she greatly desired to read .
But she saw him sitting on the rustic seat at the further side .
His back was towards her , and he was partially screened by a copse of lilacs .
Alice , blushing slightly , unlatched the garden gate , and went down the path .
She had never been in the garden before , and she found her heart beating in a strange fashion .
He did not hear her footsteps , and she was close behind him when she heard his voice , and realized that he was talking to himself , in a low , dreamy tone .
As the meaning of his words dawned on her consciousness she started and grew crimson .
She could not move or speak ; as one in a dream she stood and listened to the shy man 's reverie , guiltless of any thought of eavesdropping .
`` How much I love you , Alice , '' Jasper Dale was saying , unafraid , with no shyness in voice or manner .
`` I wonder what you would say if you knew .
You would laugh at me -- sweet as you are , you would laugh in mockery .
I can never tell you .
I can only dream of telling you .
In my dream you are standing here by me , dear .
I can see you very plainly , my sweet lady , so tall and gracious , with your dark hair and your maiden eyes .
I can dream that I tell you my love ; that -- maddest , sweetest dream of all -- that you love me in return .
Everything is possible in dreams , you know , dear .
My dreams are all I have , so I go far in them , even to dreaming that you are my wife .
I dream how I shall fix up my dull old house for you .
One room will need nothing more -- it is your room , dear , and has been ready for you a long time -- long before that day I saw you under the pine .
Your books and your chair and your picture are there , dear -- only the picture is not half lovely enough .
But the other rooms of the house must be made to bloom out freshly for you .
What a delight it is thus to dream of what I would do for you !
Then I would bring you home , dear , and lead you through my garden and into my house as its mistress .
I would see you standing beside me in the old mirror at the end of the hall -- a bride , in your pale blue dress , with a blush on your face .
I would lead you through all the rooms made ready for your coming , and then to your own .
I would see you sitting in your own chair and all my dreams would find rich fulfilment in that royal moment .
Oh , Alice , we would have a beautiful life together !
It 's sweet to make believe about it .
You will sing to me in the twilight , and we will gather early flowers together in the spring days .
When I come home from work , tired , you will put your arms about me and lay your head on my shoulder .
I will stroke it -- so -- that bonny , glossy head of yours .
Alice , my Alice -- all mine in my dream -- never to be mine in real life -- how I love you ! ''
The Alice behind him could bear no more .
She gave a little choking cry that betrayed her presence .
Jasper Dale sprang up and gazed upon her .
He saw her standing there , amid the languorous shadows of August , pale with feeling , wide-eyed , trembling .
For a moment shyness wrung him .
Then every trace of it was banished by a sudden , strange , fierce anger that swept over him .
He felt outraged and hurt to the death ; he felt as if he had been cheated out of something incalculably precious -- as if sacrilege had been done to his most holy sanctuary of emotion .
White , tense with his anger , he looked at her and spoke , his lips as pale as if his fiery words scathed them .
`` How dare you ?
You have spied on me -- you have crept in and listened !
How dare you ?
Do you know what you have done , girl ?
You have destroyed all that made life worth while to me .
My dream is dead .
It could not live when it was betrayed .
And it was all I had .
Oh , laugh at me -- mock me !
I know that I am ridiculous !
What of it ?
It never could have hurt you !
Why must you creep in like this to hear me and put me to shame ?
Oh , I love you -- I will say it , laugh as you will .
Is it such a strange thing that I should have a heart like other men ?
This will make sport for you !
I , who love you better than my life , better than any other man in the world can love you , will be a jest to you all your life .
I love you -- and yet I think I could hate you -- you have destroyed my dream -- you have done me deadly wrong . ''
`` Jasper !
Jasper ! ''
cried Alice , finding her voice .
His anger hurt her with a pain she could not endure .
It was unbearable that Jasper should be angry with her .
In that moment she realized that she loved him -- that the words he had spoken when unconscious of her presence were the sweetest she had ever heard , or ever could hear .
Nothing mattered at all , save that he loved her and was angry with her .
`` Do n't say such dreadful things to me , '' she stammered , `` I did not mean to listen .
I could not help it .
I shall never laugh at you .
Oh , Jasper '' -- she looked bravely at him and the fine soul of her shone through the flesh like an illuminating lamp -- `` I am glad that you love me !
and I am glad I chanced to overhear you , since you would never have had the courage to tell me otherwise .
Glad -- glad !
Do you understand , Jasper ? ''
Jasper looked at her with the eyes of one who , looking through pain , sees rapture beyond .
`` Is it possible ? ''
he said , wonderingly .
`` Alice -- I am so much older than you -- and they call me the Awkward Man -- they say I am unlike other people '' -- `` You ARE unlike other people , '' she said softly , `` and that is why I love you .
I know now that I must have loved you ever since I saw you . ''
`` I loved you long before I saw you , '' said Jasper .
He came close to her and drew her into his arms , tenderly and reverently , all his shyness and awkwardness swallowed up in the grace of his great happiness .
In the old garden he kissed her lips and Alice entered into her own .
CHAPTER XXVI .
UNCLE BLAIR COMES HOME It happened that the Story Girl and I both got up very early on the morning of the Awkward Man 's wedding day .
Uncle Alec was going to Charlottetown that day , and I , awakened at daybreak by the sounds in the kitchen beneath us , remembered that I had forgotten to ask him to bring me a certain school-book I wanted .
So I hurriedly dressed and hastened down to tell him before he went .
I was joined on the stairs by the Story Girl , who said she had wakened and , not feeling like going to sleep again , thought she might as well get up .
`` I had such a funny dream last night , '' she said .
`` I dreamed that I heard a voice calling me from away down in Uncle Stephen 's Walk -- ` Sara , Sara , Sara , ' it kept calling .
I did n't know whose it was , and yet it seemed like a voice I knew .
I wakened up while it was calling , and it seemed so real I could hardly believe it was a dream .
It was bright moonlight , and I felt just like getting up and going out to the orchard .
But I knew that would be silly and of course I did n't go .
But I kept on wanting to and I could n't sleep any more .
Was n't it queer ? ''
When Uncle Alec had gone I proposed a saunter to the farther end of the orchard , where I had left a book the preceding evening .
A young mom was walking rosily on the hills as we passed down Uncle Stephen 's Walk , with Paddy trotting before us .
High overhead was the spirit-like blue of paling skies ; the east was a great arc of crystal , smitten through with auroral crimsonings ; just above it was one milk-white star of morning , like a pearl on a silver sea .
A light wind of dawn was weaving an orient spell .
`` It 's lovely to be up as early as this , is n't it ? ''
said the Story Girl .
`` The world seems so different just at sunrise , does n't it ?
It makes me feel just like getting up to see the sun rise every morning of my life after this .
But I know I wo n't .
I 'll likely sleep later than ever tomorrow morning .
But I wish I could . ''
`` The Awkward Man and Miss Reade are going to have a lovely day for their wedding , '' I said .
`` Yes , and I 'm so glad .
Beautiful Alice deserves everything good .
Why , Bev -- why , Bev !
Who is that in the hammock ? ''
I looked .
The hammock was swung under the two end trees of the Walk .
In it a man was lying , asleep , his head pillowed on his overcoat .
He was sleeping easily , lightly , and wholesomely .
He had a pointed brown beard and thick wavy brown hair .
His cheeks were a dusky red and the lashes of his closed eyes were as long and dark and silken as a girl 's .
He wore a light gray suit , and on the slender white hand that hung down over the hammock 's edge was a spark of diamond fire .
It seemed to me that I knew his face , although assuredly I had never seen him before .
While I groped among vague speculations the Story Girl gave a queer , choked little cry .
The next moment she had sprung over the intervening space , dropped on her knees by the hammock , and flung her arms about the man 's neck .
`` Father !
Father ! ''
she cried , while I stood , rooted to the ground in my amazement .
The sleeper stirred and opened two large , exceedingly brilliant hazel eyes .
For a moment he gazed rather blankly at the brown-curled young lady who was embracing him .
Then a most delightful smile broke over his face ; he sprang up and caught her to his heart .
`` Sara -- Sara -- my little Sara !
To think did n't know you at first glance !
But you are almost a woman .
And when I saw you last you were just a little girl of eight .
My own little Sara ! ''
`` Father -- father -- sometimes I 've wondered if you were ever coming back to me , '' I heard the Story Girl say , as I turned and scuttled up the Walk , realizing that I was not wanted there just then and would be little missed .
Various emotions and speculations possessed my mind in my retreat ; but chiefly did I feel a sense of triumph in being the bearer of exciting news .
`` Aunt Janet , Uncle Blair is here , '' I announced breathlessly at the kitchen door .
Aunt Janet , who was kneading her bread , turned round and lifted floury hands .
Felicity and Cecily , who were just entering the kitchen , rosy from slumber , stopped still and stared at me .
`` Uncle who ? ''
exclaimed Aunt Janet .
`` Uncle Blair -- the Story Girl 's father , you know .
He 's here . ''
`` WHERE ? ''
`` Down in the orchard .
He was asleep in the hammock .
We found him there . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
said Aunt Janet , sitting down helplessly .
`` If that is n't like Blair !
Of course he could n't come like anybody else .
I wonder , '' she added in a tone unheard by anyone else save myself , `` I wonder if he has come to take the child away . ''
My elation went out like a snuffed candle .
I had never thought of this .
If Uncle Blair took the Story Girl away would not life become rather savourless on the hill farm ?
I turned and followed Felicity and Cecily out in a very subdued mood .
Uncle Blair and the Story Girl were just coming out of the orchard .
His arm was about her and hers was on his shoulder .
Laughter and tears were contending in her eyes .
Only once before -- when Peter had come back from the Valley of the Shadow -- had I seen the Story Girl cry .
Emotion had to go very deep with her ere it touched the source of tears .
I had always known that she loved her father passionately , though she rarely talked of him , understanding that her uncles and aunts were not whole-heartedly his friends .
But Aunt Janet 's welcome was cordial enough , though a trifle flustered .
Whatever thrifty , hard-working farmer folk might think of gay , Bohemian Blair Stanley in his absence , in his presence even they liked him , by the grace of some winsome , lovable quality in the soul of him .
He had `` a way with him '' -- revealed even in the manner with which he caught staid Aunt Janet in his arms , swung her matronly form around as though she had been a slim schoolgirl , and kissed her rosy cheek .
`` Sister o ' mine , are you never going to grow old ? ''
he said .
`` Here you are at forty-five with the roses of sixteen -- and not a gray hair , I 'll wager . ''
`` Blair , Blair , it is you who are always young , '' laughed Aunt Janet , not ill pleased .
`` Where in the world did you come from ?
And what is this I hear of your sleeping all night in the hammock ? ''
`` I 've been painting in the Lake District all summer , as you know , '' answered Uncle Blair , `` and one day I just got homesick to see my little girl .
So I sailed for Montreal without further delay .
I got here at eleven last night -- the station-master 's son drove me down .
Nice boy .
The old house was in darkness and I thought it would be a shame to rouse you all out of bed after a hard day 's work .
So I decided that I would spend the night in the orchard .
It was moonlight , you know , and moonlight in an old orchard is one of the few things left over from the Golden Age . ''
`` It was very foolish of you , '' said practical Aunt Janet .
`` These September nights are real chilly .
You might have caught your death of cold -- or a bad dose of rheumatism . ''
`` So I might .
No doubt it was foolish of me , '' agreed Uncle Blair gaily .
`` It must have been the fault , of the moonlight .
Moonlight , you know , Sister Janet , has an intoxicating quality .
It is a fine , airy , silver wine , such as fairies may drink at their revels , unharmed of it ; but when a mere mortal sips of it , it mounts straightway to his brain , to the undoing of his daylight common sense .
However , I have got neither cold nor rheumatism , as a sensible person would have done had he ever been lured into doing such a non-sensible thing ; there is a special Providence for us foolish folk .
I enjoyed my night in the orchard ; for a time I was companioned by sweet old memories ; and then I fell asleep listening to the murmurs of the wind in those old trees yonder .
And I had a beautiful dream , Janet .
I dreamed that the old orchard blossomed again , as it did that spring eighteen years ago .
I dreamed that its sunshine was the sunshine of spring , not autumn .
There was newness of life in my dream , Janet , and the sweetness of forgotten words . ''
`` Was n't it strange about MY dream ? ''
whispered the Story Girl to me .
`` Well , you 'd better come in and have some breakfast , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` These are my little girls -- Felicity and Cecily . ''
`` I remember them as two most adorable tots , '' said Uncle Blair , shaking hands .
`` They have n't changed quite so much as my own baby-child .
Why , she 's a woman , Janet -- she 's a woman . ''
`` She 's child enough still , '' said Aunt Janet hastily .
The Story Girl shook her long brown curls .
`` I 'm fifteen , '' she said .
`` And you ought to see me in my long dress , father . ''
`` We must not be separated any longer , dear heart , '' I heard Uncle Blair say tenderly .
I hoped that he meant he would stay in Canada -- not that he would take the Story Girl away .
Apart from this we had a gay day with Uncle Blair .
He evidently liked our society better than that of the grown-ups , for he was a child himself at heart , gay , irresponsible , always acting on the impulse of the moment .
We all found him a delightful companion .
There was no school that day , as Mr. Perkins was absent , attending a meeting of the Teachers ' Convention , so we spent most of its golden hours in the orchard with Uncle Blair , listening to his fascinating accounts of foreign wanderings .
He also drew all our pictures for us , and this was especially delightful , for the day of the camera was only just dawning and none of us had ever had even our photographs taken .
Sara Ray 's pleasure was , as usual , quite spoiled by wondering what her mother would say of it , for Mrs. Ray had , so it appeared , some very peculiar prejudices against the taking or making of any kind of picture whatsoever , owing to an exceedingly strict interpretation of the second commandment .
Dan suggested that she need not tell her mother anything about it ; but Sara shook her head .
`` I 'll have to tell her .
I 've made it a rule to tell ma everything I do ever since the Judgment Day . ''
`` Besides , '' added Cecily seriously , `` the Family Guide says one ought to tell one 's mother everything . ''
`` It 's pretty hard sometimes , though , '' sighed Sara .
`` Ma scolds so much when I do tell her things , that it sort of discourages me .
But when I think of how dreadful I felt the time of the Judgment Day over deceiving her in some things it nerves me up .
I 'd do almost anything rather than feel like that the next time the Judgment Day comes . ''
`` Fe , fi , fo , fum , I smell a story , '' said Uncle Blair .
`` What do you mean by speaking of the Judgment Day in the past tense ? ''
The Story Girl told him the tale of that dreadful Sunday in the preceding summer and we all laughed with him at ourselves .
`` All the same , '' muttered Peter , `` I do n't want to have another experience like that .
I hope I 'll be dead the next time the Judgment Day comes . ''
`` But you 'll be raised up for it , '' said Felix .
`` Oh , that 'll be all right .
I wo n't mind that .
I wo n't know anything about it till it really happens .
It 's the expecting it that 's the worst . ''
`` I do n't think you ought to talk of such things , '' said Felicity .
When evening came we all went to Golden Milestone .
We knew the Awkward Man and his bride were expected home at sunset , and we meant to scatter flowers on the path by which she must enter her new home .
It was the Story Girl 's idea , but I do n't think Aunt Janet would have let us go if Uncle Blair had not pleaded for us .
He asked to be taken along , too , and we agreed , if he would stand out of sight when the newly married pair came home .
`` You see , father , the Awkward Man wo n't mind us , because we 're only children and he knows us well , '' explained the Story Girl , `` but if he sees you , a stranger , it might confuse him and we might spoil the homecoming , and that would be such a pity . ''
So we went to Golden Milestone , laden with all the flowery spoil we could plunder from both gardens .
It was a clear amber-tinted September evening and far away , over Markdale Harbour , a great round red moon was rising as we waited .
Uncle Blair was hidden behind the wind-blown tassels of the pines at the gate , but he and the Story Girl kept waving their hands at each other and calling out gay , mirthful jests .
`` Do you really feel acquainted with your father ? ''
whispered Sara Ray wonderingly .
`` It 's long since you saw him . ''
`` If I had n't seen him for a hundred years it would n't make any difference that way , '' laughed the Story Girl .
`` S-s-h-s-s-h -- they 're coming , '' whispered Felicity excitedly .
And then they came -- Beautiful Alice blushing and lovely , in the prettiest of pretty blue dresses , and the Awkward Man , so fervently happy that he quite forgot to be awkward .
He lifted her out of the buggy gallantly and led her forward to us , smiling .
We retreated before them , scattering our flowers lavishly on the path , and Alice Dale walked to the very doorstep of her new home over a carpet of blossoms .
On the step they both paused and turned towards us , and we shyly did the proper thing in the way of congratulations and good wishes .
`` It was so sweet of you to do this , '' said the smiling bride .
`` It was lovely to be able to do it for you , dearest , '' whispered the Story Girl , `` and oh , Miss Reade -- Mrs. Dale , I mean -- we all hope you 'll be so , so happy for ever . ''
`` I am sure I shall , '' said Alice Dale , turning to her husband .
He looked down into her eyes -- and we were quite forgotten by both of them .
We saw it , and slipped away , while Jasper Dale drew his wife into their home and shut the world out .
We scampered joyously away through the moonlit dusk .
Uncle Blair joined us at the gate and the Story Girl asked him what he thought of the bride .
`` When she dies white violets will grow out of her dust , '' he answered .
`` Uncle Blair says even queerer things than the Story Girl , '' Felicity whispered to me .
And so that beautiful day went away from us , slipping through our fingers as we tried to hold it .
It hooded itself in shadows and fared forth on the road that is lighted by the white stars of evening .
It had been a gift of Paradise .
Its hours had all been fair and beloved .
From dawn flush to fall of night there had been naught to mar it .
It took with it its smiles and laughter .
But it left the boon of memory .
CHAPTER XXVII .
THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH `` I am going away with father when he goes .
He is going to spend the winter in Paris , and I am to go to school there . ''
The Story Girl told us this one day in the orchard .
There was a little elation in her tone , but more regret .
The news was not a great surprise to us .
We had felt it in the air ever since Uncle Blair 's arrival .
Aunt Janet had been very unwilling to let the Story Girl go .
But Uncle Blair was inexorable .
It was time , he said , that she should go to a better school than the little country one in Carlisle ; and besides , he did not want her to grow into womanhood a stranger to him .
So it was finally decided that she was to go .
`` Just think , you are going to Europe , '' said Sara Ray in an awe-struck tone .
`` Wo n't that be splendid ! ''
`` I suppose I 'll like it after a while , '' said the Story Girl slowly , `` but I know I 'll be dreadfully homesick at first .
Of course , it will be lovely to be with father , but oh , I 'll miss the rest of you so much ! ''
`` Just think how WE 'LL miss YOU , '' sighed Cecily .
`` It will be so lonesome here this winter , with you and Peter both gone .
Oh , dear , I do wish things did n't have to change . ''
Felicity said nothing .
She kept looking down at the grass on which she sat , absently pulling at the slender blades .
Presently we saw two big tears roll down over her cheeks .
The Story Girl looked surprised .
`` Are you crying because I 'm going away , Felicity ? ''
she asked .
`` Of course I am , '' answered Felicity , with a big sob .
`` Do you think I 've no f-f-eeling ? ''
`` I did n't think you 'd care much , '' said the Story Girl frankly .
`` You 've never seemed to like me very much . ''
`` I d-don ' t wear my h-heart on my sleeve , '' said poor Felicity , with an attempt at dignity .
`` I think you m-might stay .
Your father would let you s-stay if you c-coaxed him . ''
`` Well , you see I 'd have to go some time , '' sighed the Story Girl , `` and the longer it was put off the harder it would be .
But I do feel dreadfully about it .
I ca n't even take poor Paddy .
I 'll have to leave him behind , and oh , I want you all to promise to be kind to him for my sake . ''
We all solemnly assured her that we would .
`` I 'll g-give him cream every m-morning and n-night , '' sobbed Felicity , `` but I 'll never be able to look at him without crying .
He 'll make me think of you . ''
`` Well , I 'm not going right away , '' said the Story Girl , more cheerfully .
`` Not till the last of October .
So we have over a month yet to have a good time in .
Let 's all just determine to make it a splendid month for the last .
We wo n't think about my going at all till we have to , and we wo n't have any quarrels among us , and we 'll just enjoy ourselves all we possibly can .
So do n't cry any more , Felicity .
I 'm awfully glad you do like me and am sorry I 'm going away , but let 's all forget it for a month . ''
Felicity sighed , and tucked away her damp handkerchief .
`` It is n't so easy for me to forget things , but I 'll try , '' she said disconsolately , `` and if you want any more cooking lessons before you go I 'll be real glad to teach you anything I know . ''
This was a high plane of self-sacrifice for Felicity to attain .
But the Story Girl shook her head .
`` No , I 'm not going to bother my head about cooking lessons this last month .
It 's too vexing . ''
`` Do you remember the time you made the pudding -- '' began Peter , and suddenly stopped .
`` Out of sawdust ? ''
finished the Story Girl cheerfully .
`` You need n't be afraid to mention it to me after this .
I do n't mind any more .
I begin to see the fun of it now .
I should think I do remember it -- and the time I baked the bread before it was raised enough . ''
`` People have made worse mistakes than that , '' said Felicity kindly .
`` Such as using tooth-powd -- '' but here Dan stopped abruptly , remembering the Story Girl 's plea for a beautiful month .
Felicity coloured , but said nothing -- did not even LOOK anything .
`` We HAVE had lots of fun together one way or another , '' said Cecily , retrospectively .
`` Just think how much we 've laughed this last year or so , '' said the Story Girl .
`` We 've had good times together ; but I think we 'll have lots more splendid years ahead . ''
`` Eden is always behind us -- Paradise always before , '' said Uncle Blair , coming up in time to hear her .
He said it with a sigh that was immediately lost in one of his delightful smiles .
`` I like Uncle Blair so much better than I expected to , '' Felicity confided to me .
`` Mother says he 's a rolling stone , but there really is something very nice about him , although he says a great many things I do n't understand .
I suppose the Story Girl will have a very gay time in Paris . ''
`` She 's going to school and she 'll have to study hard , '' I said .
`` She says she 's going to study for the stage , '' said Felicity .
`` Uncle Roger thinks it is all right , and says she 'll be very famous some day .
But mother thinks it 's dreadful , and so do I. '' `` Aunt Julia is a concert singer , '' I said .
`` Oh , that 's very different .
But I hope poor Sara will get on all right , '' sighed Felicity .
`` You never know what may happen to a person in those foreign countries .
And everybody says Paris is such a wicked place .
But we must hope for the best , '' she concluded in a resigned tone .
That evening the Story Girl and I drove the cows to pasture after milking , and when we came home we sought out Uncle Blair in the orchard .
He was sauntering up and down Uncle Stephen 's Walk , his hands clasped behind him and his beautiful , youthful face uplifted to the western sky where waves of night were breaking on a dim primrose shore of sunset .
`` See that star over there in the south-west ? ''
he said , as we joined him .
`` The one just above that pine ?
An evening star shining over a dark pine tree is the whitest thing in the universe -- because it is LIVING whiteness -- whiteness possessing a soul .
How full this old orchard is of twilight !
Do you know , I have been trysting here with ghosts . ''
`` The Family Ghost ? ''
I asked , very stupidly .
`` No , not the Family Ghost .
I never saw beautiful , broken-hearted Emily yet .
Your mother saw her once , Sara -- that was a strange thing , '' he added absently , as if to himself .
`` Did mother really see her ? ''
whispered the Story Girl .
`` Well , she always believed she did .
Who knows ? ''
`` Do you think there are such things as ghosts , Uncle Blair ? ''
I asked curiously .
`` I never saw any , Beverley . ''
`` But you said you were trysting with ghosts here this evening , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Oh , yes -- the ghosts of the old years .
I love this orchard because of its many ghosts .
We are good comrades , those ghosts and I ; we walk and talk -- we even laugh together -- sorrowful laughter that has sorrow 's own sweetness .
And always there comes to me one dear phantom and wanders hand in hand with me -- a lost lady of the old years . ''
`` My mother ? ''
said the Story Girl very softly .
`` Yes , your mother .
Here , in her old haunts , it is impossible for me to believe that she can be dead -- that her LAUGHTER can be dead .
She was the gayest , sweetest thing -- and so young -- only three years older than you , Sara .
Yonder old house had been glad because of her for eighteen years when I met her first . ''
`` I wish I could remember her , '' said the Story Girl , with a little sigh .
`` I have n't even a picture of her .
Why did n't you paint one , father ? ''
`` She would never let me .
She had some queer , funny , half-playful , half-earnest superstition about it .
But I always meant to when she would become willing to let me .
And then -- she died .
Her twin brother Felix died the same day .
There was something strange about that , too .
I was holding her in my arms and she was looking up at me ; suddenly she looked past me and gave a little start .
` Felix ! '
she said .
For a moment she trembled and then she smiled and looked up at me again a little beseechingly .
` Felix has come for me , dear , ' she said .
` We were always together before you came -- you must not mind -- you must be glad I do not have to go alone . '
Well , who knows ?
But she left me , Sara -- she left me . ''
There was that in Uncle Blair 's voice that kept us silent for a time .
Then the Story Girl said , still very softly : `` What did mother look like , father ?
I do n't look the least little bit like her , do I ? ''
`` No , I wish you did , you brown thing .
Your mother 's face was as white as a wood-lily , with only a faint dream of rose in her cheeks .
She had the eyes of one who always had a song in her heart -- blue as a mist , those eyes were .
She had dark lashes , and a little red mouth that quivered when she was very sad or very happy like a crimson rose too rudely shaken by the wind .
She was as slim and lithe as a young , white-stemmed birch tree .
How I loved her !
How happy we were !
But he who accepts human love must bind it to his soul with pain , and she is not lost to me .
Nothing is ever really lost to us as long as we remember it . ''
Uncle Blair looked up at the evening star .
We saw that he had forgotten us , and we slipped away , hand in hand , leaving him alone in the memory-haunted shadows of the old orchard .
CHAPTER XXVIII .
THE PATH TO ARCADY October that year gathered up all the spilled sunshine of the summer and clad herself in it as in a garment .
The Story Girl had asked us to try to make the last month together beautiful , and Nature seconded our efforts , giving us that most beautiful of beautiful things -- a gracious and perfect moon of falling leaves .
There was not in all that vanished October one day that did not come in with auroral splendour and go out attended by a fair galaxy of evening stars -- not a day when there were not golden lights in the wide pastures and purple hazes in the ripened distances .
Never was anything so gorgeous as the maple trees that year .
Maples are trees that have primeval fire in their souls .
It glows out a little in their early youth , before the leaves open , in the redness and rosy-yellowness of their blossoms , but in summer it is carefully hidden under a demure , silver-lined greenness .
Then when autumn comes , the maples give up trying to be sober and flame out in all the barbaric splendour and gorgeousness of their real nature , making of the hills things out of an Arabian Nights dream in the golden prime of good Haroun Alraschid .
You may never know what scarlet and crimson really are until you see them in their perfection on an October hillside , under the unfathomable blue of an autumn sky .
All the glow and radiance and joy at earth 's heart seem to have broken loose in a splendid determination to express itself for once before the frost of winter chills her beating pulses .
It is the year 's carnival ere the dull Lenten days of leafless valleys and penitential mists come .
The time of apple-picking had come around once more and we worked joyously .
Uncle Blair picked apples with us , and between him and the Story Girl it was an October never to be forgotten .
`` Will you go far afield for a walk with me to-day ? ''
he said to her and me , one idle afternoon of opal skies , pied meadows and misty hills .
It was Saturday and Peter had gone home ; Felix and Dan were helping Uncle Alec top turnips ; Cecily and Felicity were making cookies for Sunday , so the Story Girl and I were alone in Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
We liked to be alone together that last month , to think the long , long thoughts of youth and talk about our futures .
There had grown up between us that summer a bond of sympathy that did not exist between us and the others .
We were older than they -- the Story Girl was fifteen and I was nearly that ; and all at once it seemed as if we were immeasurably older than the rest , and possessed of dreams and visions and forward-reaching hopes which they could not possibly share or understand .
At times we were still children , still interested in childish things .
But there came hours when we seemed to our two selves very grown up and old , and in those hours we talked our dreams and visions and hopes , vague and splendid , as all such are , over together , and so began to build up , out of the rainbow fragments of our childhood 's companionship , that rare and beautiful friendship which was to last all our lives , enriching and enstarring them .
For there is no bond more lasting than that formed by the mutual confidences of that magic time when youth is slipping from the sheath of childhood and beginning to wonder what lies for it beyond those misty hills that bound the golden road .
`` Where are you going ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` To ` the woods that belt the gray hillside ' -- ay , and overflow beyond it into many a valley purple-folded in immemorial peace , '' answered Uncle Blair .
`` I have a fancy for one more ramble in Prince Edward Island woods before I leave Canada again .
But I would not go alone .
So come , you two gay youthful things to whom all life is yet fair and good , and we will seek the path to Arcady .
There will be many little things along our way to make us glad .
Joyful sounds will ` come ringing down the wind ; ' a wealth of gypsy gold will be ours for the gathering ; we will learn the potent , unutterable charm of a dim spruce wood and the grace of flexile mountain ashes fringing a lonely glen ; we will tryst with the folk of fur and feather ; we 'll hearken to the music of gray old firs .
Come , and you 'll have a ramble and an afternoon that you will both remember all your lives . ''
We did have it ; never has its remembrance faded ; that idyllic afternoon of roving in the old Carlisle woods with the Story Girl and Uncle Blair gleams in my book of years , a page of living beauty .
Yet it was but a few hours of simplest pleasure ; we wandered pathlessly through the sylvan calm of those dear places which seemed that day to be full of a great friendliness ; Uncle Blair sauntered along behind us , whistling softly ; sometimes he talked to himself ; we delighted in those brief reveries of his ; Uncle Blair was the only man I have ever known who could , when he so willed , `` talk like a book , '' and do it without seeming ridiculous ; perhaps it was because he had the knack of choosing `` fit audience , though few , '' and the proper time to appeal to that audience .
We went across the fields , intending to skirt the woods at the back of Uncle Alec 's farm and find a lane that cut through Uncle Roger 's woods ; but before we came to it we stumbled on a sly , winding little path quite by accident -- if , indeed , there can be such a thing as accident in the woods , where I am tempted to think we are led by the Good People along such of their fairy ways as they have a mind for us to walk in .
`` Go to , let us explore this , '' said Uncle Blair .
`` It always drags terribly at my heart to go past a wood lane if I can make any excuse at all for traversing it : for it is the by-ways that lead to the heart of the woods and we must follow them if we would know the forest and be known of it .
When we can really feel its wild heart beating against ours its subtle life will steal into our veins and make us its own for ever , so that no matter where we go or how wide we wander in the noisy ways of cities or over the lone ways of the sea , we shall yet be drawn back to the forest to find our most enduring kinship . ''
`` I always feel so SATISFIED in the woods , '' said the Story Girl dreamily , as we turned in under the low-swinging fir boughs .
`` Trees seem such friendly things . ''
`` They are the most friendly things in God 's good creation , '' said Uncle Blair emphatically .
`` And it is so easy to live with them .
To hold converse with pines , to whisper secrets with the poplars , to listen to the tales of old romance that beeches have to tell , to walk in eloquent silence with self-contained firs , is to learn what real companionship is .
Besides , trees are the same all over the world .
A beech tree on the slopes of the Pyrenees is just what a beech tree here in these Carlisle woods is ; and there used to be an old pine hereabouts whose twin brother I was well acquainted with in a dell among the Apennines .
Listen to those squirrels , will you , chattering over yonder .
Did you ever hear such a fuss over nothing ?
Squirrels are the gossips and busybodies of the woods ; they have n't learned the fine reserve of its other denizens .
But after all , there is a certain shrill friendliness in their greeting . ''
`` They seem to be scolding us , '' I said , laughing .
`` Oh , they are not half such scolds as they sound , '' answered Uncle Blair gaily .
`` If they would but ` tak a thought and mend ' their shrew-like ways they would be dear , lovable creatures enough . ''
`` If I had to be an animal I think I 'd like to be a squirrel , '' said the Story Girl .
`` It must be next best thing to flying . ''
`` Just see what a spring that fellow gave , '' laughed Uncle Blair .
`` And now listen to his song of triumph !
I suppose that chasm he cleared seemed as wide and deep to him as Niagara Gorge would to us if we leaped over it .
Well , the wood people are a happy folk and very well satisfied with themselves . ''
Those who have followed a dim , winding , balsamic path to the unexpected hollow where a wood-spring lies have found the rarest secret the forest can reveal .
Such was our good fortune that day .
At the end of our path we found it , under the pines , a crystal-clear thing with lips unkissed by so much as a stray sunbeam .
`` It is easy to dream that this is one of the haunted springs of old romance , '' said Uncle Blair . ''
'T is an enchanted spot this , I am very sure , and we should go softly , speaking low , lest we disturb the rest of a white , wet naiad , or break some spell that has cost long years of mystic weaving . ''
`` It 's so easy to believe things in the woods , '' said the Story Girl , shaping a cup from a bit of golden-brown birch bark and filling it at the spring .
`` Drink a toast in that water , Sara , '' said Uncle Blair .
`` There 's not a doubt that it has some potent quality of magic in it and the wish you wish over it will come true . ''
The Story Girl lifted her golden-hued flagon to her red lips .
Her hazel eyes laughed at us over the brim .
`` Here 's to our futures , '' she cried , `` I wish that every day of our lives may be better than the one that went before . ''
`` An extravagant wish -- a very wish of youth , '' commented Uncle Blair , `` and yet in spite of its extravagance , a wish that will come true if you are true to yourselves .
In that case , every day WILL be better than all that went before -- but there will be many days , dear lad and lass , when you will not believe it . ''
We did not understand him , but we knew Uncle Blair never explained his meaning .
When asked it he was wont to answer with a smile , `` Some day you 'll grow to it .
Wait for that . ''
So we addressed ourselves to follow the brook that stole away from the spring in its windings and doublings and tricky surprises .
`` A brook , '' quoth Uncle Blair , `` is the most changeful , bewitching , lovable thing in the world .
It is never in the same mind or mood two minutes .
Here it is sighing and murmuring as if its heart were broken .
But listen -- yonder by the birches it is laughing as if it were enjoying some capital joke all by itself . ''
It was indeed a changeful brook ; here it would make a pool , dark and brooding and still , where we bent to look at our mirrored faces ; then it grew communicative and gossiped shallowly over a broken pebble bed where there was a diamond dance of sunbeams and no troutling or minnow could glide through without being seen .
Sometimes its banks were high and steep , hung with slender ashes and birches ; again they were mere , low margins , green with delicate mosses , shelving out of the wood .
Once it came to a little precipice and flung itself over undauntedly in an indignation of foam , gathering itself up rather dizzily among the mossy stones below .
It was some time before it got over its vexation ; it went boiling and muttering along , fighting with the rotten logs that lie across it , and making far more fuss than was necessary over every root that interfered with it .
We were getting tired of its ill-humour and talked of leaving it , when it suddenly grew sweet-tempered again , swooped around a curve -- and presto , we were in fairyland .
It was a little dell far in the heart of the woods .
A row of birches fringed the brook , and each birch seemed more exquisitely graceful and golden than her sisters .
The woods receded from it on every hand , leaving it lying in a pool of amber sunshine .
The yellow trees were mirrored in the placid stream , with now and then a leaf falling on the water , mayhap to drift away and be used , as Uncle Blair suggested , by some adventurous wood sprite who had it in mind to fare forth to some far-off , legendary region where all the brooks ran into the sea .
`` Oh , what a lovely place ! ''
I exclaimed , looking around me with delight .
`` A spell of eternity is woven over it , surely , '' murmured Uncle Blair .
`` Winter may not touch it , or spring ever revisit it .
It should be like this for ever . ''
`` Let us never come here again , '' said the Story Girl softly , `` never , no matter how often we may be in Carlisle .
Then we will never see it changed or different .
We can always remember it just as we see it now , and it will be like this for ever for us . ''
`` I 'm going to sketch it , '' said Uncle Blair .
While he sketched it the Story Girl and I sat on the banks of the brook and she told me the story of the Sighing Reed .
It was a very simple little story , that of the slender brown reed which grew by the forest pool and always was sad and sighing because it could not utter music like the brook and the birds and the winds .
All the bright , beautiful things around it mocked it and laughed at it for its folly .
Who would ever look for music in it , a plain , brown , unbeautiful thing ?
But one day a youth came through the wood ; he was as beautiful as the spring ; he cut the brown reed and fashioned it according to his liking ; and then he put it to his lips and breathed on it ; and , oh , the music that floated through the forest !
It was so entrancing that everything -- brooks and birds and winds -- grew silent to listen to it .
Never had anything so lovely been heard ; it was the music that had for so long been shut up in the soul of the sighing reed and was set free at last through its pain and suffering .
I had heard the Story Girl tell many a more dramatic tale ; but that one stands out for me in memory above them all , partly , perhaps , because of the spot in which she told it , partly because it was the last one I was to hear her tell for many years -- the last one she was ever to tell me on the golden road .
When Uncle Blair had finished his sketch the shafts of sunshine were turning crimson and growing more and more remote ; the early autumn twilight was falling over the woods .
We left our dell , saying good-bye to it for ever , as the Story Girl had suggested , and we went slowly homeward through the fir woods , where a haunting , indescribable odour stole out to meet us .
`` There is magic in the scent of dying fir , '' Uncle Blair was saying aloud to himself , as if forgetting he was not quite alone .
`` It gets into our blood like some rare , subtly-compounded wine , and thrills us with unutterable sweetnesses , as of recollections from some other fairer life , lived in some happier star .
Compared to it , all other scents seem heavy and earth-born , luring to the valleys instead of the heights .
But the tang of the fir summons onward and upward to some ` far-off , divine event ' -- some spiritual peak of attainment whence we shall see with unfaltering , unclouded vision the spires of some aerial City Beautiful , or the fulfilment of some fair , fadeless land of promise . ''
He was silent for a moment , then added in a lower tone , `` Felicity , you loved the scent of dying fir .
If you were here tonight with me -- Felicity -- Felicity ! ''
Something in his voice made me suddenly sad .
I was comforted when I felt the Story Girl slip her hand into mine .
So we walked out of the woods into the autumn dusk .
We were in a little valley .
Half-way up the opposite slope a brush fire was burning clearly and steadily in a maple grove .
There was something indescribably alluring in that fire , glowing so redly against the dark background of forest and twilit hill .
`` Let us go to it , '' cried Uncle Blair , gaily , casting aside his sorrowful mood and catching our hands .
`` A wood fire at night has a fascination not to be resisted by those of mortal race .
Hasten -- we must not lose time . ''
`` Oh , it will burn a long time yet , '' I gasped , for Uncle Blair was whisking us up the hill at a merciless rate .
`` You ca n't be sure .
It may have been lighted by some good , honest farmer-man , bent on tidying up his sugar orchard , but it may also , for anything we know , have been kindled by no earthly woodman as a beacon or summons to the tribes of fairyland , and may vanish away if we tarry . ''
It did not vanish and presently we found ourselves in the grove .
It was very beautiful ; the fire burned with a clear , steady glow and a soft crackle ; the long arcades beneath the trees were illuminated with a rosy radiance , beyond which lurked companies of gray and purple shadows .
Everything was very still and dreamy and remote .
`` It is impossible that out there , just over the hill , lies a village of men , where tame household lamps are shining , '' said Uncle Blair .
`` I feel as if we must be thousands of miles away from everything we 've ever known , '' murmured the Story Girl .
`` So you are ! ''
said Uncle Blair emphatically .
`` You 're back in the youth of the race -- back in the beguilement of the young world .
Everything is in this hour -- the beauty of classic myths , the primal charm of the silent and the open , the lure of mystery .
Why , it 's a time and place when and where everything might come true -- when the men in green might creep out to join hands and dance around the fire , or dryads steal from their trees to warm their white limbs , grown chilly in October frosts , by the blaze .
I would n't be much surprised if we should see something of the kind .
Is n't that the flash of an ivory shoulder through yonder gloom ?
And did n't you see a queer little elfin face peering at us around that twisted gray trunk ?
But one ca n't be sure .
Mortal eyesight is too slow and clumsy a thing to match against the flicker of a pixy-litten fire . ''
Hand in hand we wandered through that enchanted place , seeking the folk of elf-land , `` and heard their mystic voices calling , from fairy knoll and haunted hill . ''
Not till the fire died down into ashes did we leave the grove .
Then we found that the full moon was gleaming lustrously from a cloudless sky across the valley .
Between us and her stretched up a tall pine , wondrously straight and slender and branchless to its very top , where it overflowed in a crest of dark boughs against the silvery splendour behind it .
Beyond , the hill farms were lying in a suave , white radiance .
`` Does n't it seem a long , long time to you since we left home this afternoon ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` And yet it is only a few hours . ''
Only a few hours -- true ; yet such hours were worth a cycle of common years untouched by the glory and the dream .
CHAPTER XXIX .
WE LOSE A FRIEND Our beautiful October was marred by one day of black tragedy -- the day Paddy died .
For Paddy , after seven years of as happy a life as ever a cat lived , died suddenly -- of poison , as was supposed .
Where he had wandered in the darkness to meet his doom we did not know , but in the frosty dawnlight he dragged himself home to die .
We found him lying on the doorstep when we got up , and it did not need Aunt Janet 's curt announcement , or Uncle Blair 's reluctant shake of the head , to tell us that there was no chance of our pet recovering this time .
We felt that nothing could be done .
Lard and sulphur on his paws would be of no use , nor would any visit to Peg Bowen avail .
We stood around in mournful silence ; the Story Girl sat down on the step and took poor Paddy upon her lap .
`` I s ` pose there 's no use even in praying now , '' said Cecily desperately .
`` It would n't do any harm to try , '' sobbed Felicity .
`` You need n't waste your prayers , '' said Dan mournfully , `` Pat is beyond human aid .
You can tell that by his eyes .
Besides , I do n't believe it was the praying cured him last time . ''
`` No , it was Peg Bowen , '' declared Peter , `` but she could n't have bewitched him this time for she 's been away for months , nobody knows where . ''
`` If he could only TELL us where he feels the worst ! ''
said Cecily piteously .
`` It 's so dreadful to see him suffering and not be able to do a single thing to help him ! ''
`` I do n't think he 's suffering much now , '' I said comfortingly .
The Story Girl said nothing .
She passed and repassed her long brown hand gently over her pet 's glossy fur .
Pat lifted his head and essayed to creep a little nearer to his beloved mistress .
The Story Girl drew his limp body close in her arms .
There was a plaintive little mew -- a long quiver -- and Paddy 's friendly soul had fared forth to wherever it is that good cats go .
`` Well , he 's gone , '' said Dan , turning his back abruptly to us .
`` It does n't seem as if it can be true , '' sobbed Cecily .
`` This time yesterday morning he was full of life . ''
`` He drank two full saucers of cream , '' moaned Felicity , `` and I saw him catch a mouse in the evening .
Maybe it was the last one he ever caught . ''
`` He did for many a mouse in his day , '' said Peter , anxious to pay his tribute to the departed . ''
` He was a cat -- take him for all in all .
We shall not look upon his like again , ' '' quoted Uncle Blair .
Felicity and Cecily and Sara Ray cried so much that Aunt Janet lost patience completely and told them sharply that they would have something to cry for some day -- which did not seem to comfort them much .
The Story Girl shed no tears , though the look in her eyes hurt more than weeping .
`` After all , perhaps it 's for the best , '' she said drearily .
`` I 've been feeling so badly over having to go away and leave Paddy .
No matter how kind you 'd all be to him I know he 'd miss me terribly .
He was n't like most cats who do n't care who comes and goes as long as they get plenty to eat .
Paddy would n't have been contented without me . ''
`` Oh , no-o-o , oh , no-o-o , '' wailed Sara Ray lugubriously .
Felix shot a disgusted glance at her .
`` I do n't see what YOU are making such a fuss about , '' he said unfeelingly .
`` He was n't your cat . ''
`` But I l-l-oved him , '' sobbed Sara , `` and I always feel bad when my friends d-do . ''
`` I wish we could believe that cats went to heaven , like people , '' sighed Cecily .
`` Do you really think it is n't possible ? ''
Uncle Blair shook his head .
`` I 'm afraid not .
I 'd like to think cats have a chance for heaven , but I ca n't .
There 's nothing heavenly about cats , delightful creatures though they are . ''
`` Blair , I 'm really surprised to hear the things you say to the children , '' said Aunt Janet severely .
`` Surely you would n't prefer me to tell them that cats DO go to heaven , '' protested Uncle Blair .
`` I think it 's wicked to carry on about an animal as those children do , '' answered Aunt Janet decidedly , `` and you should n't encourage them .
Here now , children , stop making a fuss .
Bury that cat and get off to your apple picking . ''
We had to go to our work , but Paddy was not to be buried in any such off-hand fashion as that .
It was agreed that we should bury him in the orchard at sunset that evening , and Sara Ray , who had to go home , declared she would be back for it , and implored us to wait for her if she did n't come exactly on time .
`` I may n't be able to get away till after milking , '' she sniffed , `` but I do n't want to miss it .
Even a cat 's funeral is better than none at all . ''
`` Horrid thing ! ''
said Felicity , barely waiting until Sara was out of earshot .
We worked with heavy hearts that day ; the girls cried bitterly most of the time and we boys whistled defiantly .
But as evening drew on we began to feel a sneaking interest in the details of the funeral .
As Dan said , the thing should be done properly , since Paddy was no common cat .
The Story Girl selected the spot for the grave , in a little corner behind the cherry copse , where early violets enskied the grass in spring , and we boys dug the grave , making it `` soft and narrow , '' as the heroine of the old ballad wanted hers made .
Sara Ray , who managed to come in time after all , and Felicity stood and watched us , but Cecily and the Story Girl kept far aloof .
`` This time last night you never thought you 'd be digging Pat 's grave to-night , '' sighed Felicity .
`` We little k-know what a day will bring forth , '' sobbed Sara .
`` I 've heard the minister say that and it is true . ''
`` Of course it 's true .
It 's in the Bible ; but I do n't think you should repeat it in connection with a cat , '' said Felicity dubiously .
When all was in readiness the Story Girl brought her pet through the orchard where he had so often frisked and prowled .
No useless coffin enclosed his breast but he reposed in a neat cardboard box .
`` I wonder if it would be right to say ` ashes to ashes and dust to dust , ' '' said Peter .
`` No , it would n't , '' averred Felicity .
`` It would be real wicked . ''
`` I think we ought to sing a hymn , anyway , '' asseverated Sara Ray .
`` Well , we might do that , if it is n't a very religious one , '' conceded Felicity .
`` How would ` Pull for the shore , sailor , pull for the shore , ' do ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` That never seemed to me a very religious hymn . ''
`` But it does n't seem very appropriate to a funeral occasion either , '' said Felicity .
`` I think ` Lead , kindly light , ' would be ever so much more suitable , '' suggested Sara Ray , `` and it is kind of soothing and melancholy too . ''
`` We are not going to sing anything , '' said the Story Girl coldly .
`` Do you want to make the affair ridiculous ?
We will just fill up the grave quietly and put a flat stone over the top . ''
`` It is n't much like my idea of a funeral , '' muttered Sara Ray discontentedly .
`` Never mind , we 're going to have a real obituary about him in Our Magazine , '' whispered Cecily consolingly .
`` And Peter is going to cut his name on top of the stone , '' added Felicity .
`` Only we must n't let on to the grown-ups until it is done , because they might say it was n't right . ''
We left the orchard , a sober little band , with the wind of the gray twilight blowing round us .
Uncle Roger passed us at the gate .
`` So the last sad obsequies are over ? ''
he remarked with a grin .
And we hated Uncle Roger .
But we loved Uncle Blair because he said quietly , `` And so you 've buried your little comrade ? ''
So much may depend on the way a thing is said .
But not even Uncle Blair 's sympathy could take the sting out of the fact that there was no Paddy to get the froth that night at milking time .
Felicity cried bitterly all the time she was straining the milk .
Many human beings have gone to their graves unattended by as much real regret as followed that one gray pussy cat to his .
CHAPTER XXX .
PROPHECIES `` Here 's a letter for you from father , '' said Felix , tossing it to me as he came through the orchard gate .
We had been picking apples all day , but were taking a mid-afternoon rest around the well , with a cup of its sparkling cold water to refresh us .
I opened the letter rather indifferently , for father , with all his excellent and lovable traits , was but a poor correspondent ; his letters were usually very brief and very unimportant .
This letter was brief enough , but it was freighted with a message of weighty import .
I sat gazing stupidly at the sheet after I had read it until Felix exclaimed , `` Bev , what 's the matter with you ?
What 's in that letter ? ''
`` Father is coming home , '' I said dazedly .
`` He is to leave South America in a fortnight and will be here in November to take us back to Toronto . ''
Everybody gasped .
Sara Ray , of course , began to cry , which aggravated me unreasonably .
`` Well , '' said Felix , when he got his second wind , `` I 'll be awful glad to see father again , but I tell you I do n't like the thought of leaving here . ''
I felt exactly the same but , in view of Sara Ray 's tears , admit it I would not ; so I sat in grum silence while the other tongues wagged .
`` If I were not going away myself I 'd feel just terrible , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Even as it is I 'm real sorry .
I 'd like to be able to think of you as all here together when I 'm gone , having good times and writing me about them . ''
`` It 'll be awfully dull when you fellows go , '' muttered Dan .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know what we 're ever going to do here this winter , '' said Felicity , with the calmness of despair .
`` Thank goodness there are no more fathers to come back , '' breathed Cecily with a vicious earnestness that made us all laugh , even in the midst of our dismay .
We worked very half-heartedly the rest of the day , and it was not until we assembled in the orchard in the evening that our spirits recovered something like their wonted level .
It was clear and slightly frosty ; the sun had declined behind a birch on a distant hill and it seemed a tree with a blazing heart of fire .
The great golden willow at the lane gate was laughter-shaken in the wind of evening .
Even amid all the changes of our shifting world we could not be hopelessly low-spirited -- except Sara Ray , who was often so , and Peter , who was rarely so .
But Peter had been sorely vexed in spirit for several days .
The time was approaching for the October issue of Our Magazine and he had no genuine fiction ready for it .
He had taken so much to heart Felicity 's taunt that his stories were all true that he had determined to have a really-truly false one in the next number .
But the difficulty was to get anyone to write it .
He had asked the Story Girl to do it , but she refused ; then he appealed to me and I shirked .
Finally Peter determined to write a story himself .
`` It ought n't to be any harder than writing a poem and I managed that , '' he said dolefully .
He worked at it in the evenings in the granary loft , and the rest of us forebore to question him concerning it , because he evidently disliked talking about his literary efforts .
But this evening I had to ask him if he would soon have it ready , as I wanted to make up the paper .
`` It 's done , '' said Peter , with an air of gloomy triumph .
`` It do n't amount to much , but anyhow I made it all out of my own head .
Not one word of it was ever printed or told before , and nobody can say there was . ''
`` Then I guess we have all the stuff in and I 'll have Our Magazine ready to read by tomorrow night , '' I said .
`` I s ` pose it will be the last one we 'll have , '' sighed Cecily .
`` We ca n't carry it on after you all go , and it has been such fun . ''
`` Bev will be a real newspaper editor some day , '' declared the Story Girl , on whom the spirit of prophecy suddenly descended that night .
She was swinging on the bough of an apple tree , with a crimson shawl wrapped about her head , and her eyes were bright with roguish fire .
`` How do you know he will ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` Oh , I can tell futures , '' answered the Story Girl mysteriously .
`` I know what 's going to happen to all of you .
Shall I tell you ? ''
`` Do , just for the fun of it , '' I said .
`` Then some day we 'll know just how near you came to guessing right .
Go on .
What else about me ? ''
`` You 'll write books , too , and travel all over the world , '' continued the Story Girl .
`` Felix will be fat to the end of his life , and he will be a grandfather before he is fifty , and he will wear a long black beard . ''
`` I wo n't , '' cried Felix disgustedly .
`` I hate whiskers .
Maybe I ca n't help the grandfather part , but I CAN help having a beard . ''
`` You ca n't .
It 's written in the stars . '' ''
` Tai n't .
The stars ca n't prevent me from shaving . ''
`` Wo n't Grandpa Felix sound awful funny ? ''
reflected Felicity .
`` Peter will be a minister , '' went on the Story Girl .
`` Well , I might be something worse , '' remarked Peter , in a not ungratified tone .
`` Dan will be a farmer and will marry a girl whose name begins with K and he will have eleven children .
And he 'll vote Grit . ''
`` I wo n't , '' cried scandalized Dan .
`` You do n't know a thing about it .
Catch ME ever voting Grit !
As for the rest of it -- I do n't care .
Farming 's well enough , though I 'd rather be a sailor . ''
`` Do n't talk such nonsense , '' protested Felicity sharply .
`` What on earth do you want to be a sailor for and be drowned ? ''
`` All sailors are n't drowned , '' said Dan .
`` Most of them are .
Look at Uncle Stephen . ''
`` You ai n't sure he was drowned . ''
`` Well , he disappeared , and that is worse . ''
`` How do you know ?
Disappearing might be real easy . ''
`` It 's not very easy for your family . ''
`` Hush , let 's hear the rest of the predictions , '' said Cecily .
`` Felicity , '' resumed the Story Girl gravely , `` will marry a minister . ''
Sara Ray giggled and Felicity blushed .
Peter tried hard not to look too self-consciously delighted .
`` She will be a perfect housekeeper and will teach a Sunday School class and be very happy all her life . ''
`` Will her husband be happy ? ''
queried Dan solemnly .
`` I guess he 'll be as happy as your wife , '' retorted Felicity reddening .
`` He 'll be the happiest man in the world , '' declared Peter warmly .
`` What about me ? ''
asked Sara Ray .
The Story Girl looked rather puzzled .
It was so hard to imagine Sara Ray as having any kind of future .
Yet Sara was plainly anxious to have her fortune told and must be gratified .
`` You 'll be married , '' said the Story Girl recklessly , `` and you 'll live to be nearly a hundred years old , and go to dozens of funerals and have a great many sick spells .
You will learn not to cry after you are seventy ; but your husband will never go to church . ''
`` I 'm glad you warned me , '' said Sara Ray solemnly , `` because now I know I 'll make him promise before I marry him that he will go . ''
`` He wo n't keep the promise , '' said the Story Girl , shaking her head .
`` But it is getting cold and Cecily is coughing .
Let us go in . ''
`` You have n't told my fortune , '' protested Cecily disappointedly .
The Story Girl looked very tenderly at Cecily -- at the smooth little brown head , at the soft , shining eyes , at the cheeks that were often over-rosy after slight exertion , at the little sunburned hands that were always busy doing faithful work or quiet kindnesses .
A very strange look came over the Story Girl 's face ; her eyes grew sad and far-reaching , as if of a verity they pierced beyond the mists of hidden years .
`` I could n't tell any fortune half good enough for you , dearest , '' she said , slipping her arm round Cecily .
`` You deserve everything good and lovely .
But you know I 've only been in fun -- of course I do n't know anything about what 's going to happen to us . ''
`` Perhaps you know more than you think for , '' said Sara Ray , who seemed much pleased with her fortune and anxious to believe it , despite the husband who would n't go to church .
`` But I 'd like to be told my fortune , even in fun , '' persisted Cecily .
`` Everybody you meet will love you as long as you live . ''
said the Story Girl .
`` There that 's the very nicest fortune I can tell you , and it will come true whether the others do or not , and now we must go in . ''
We went , Cecily still a little disappointed .
In later years I often wondered why the Story Girl refused to tell her fortune that night .
Did some strange gleam of foreknowledge fall for a moment across her mirth-making ?
Did she realize in a flash of prescience that there was no earthly future for our sweet Cecily ?
Not for her were to be the lengthening shadows or the fading garland .
The end was to come while the rainbow still sparkled on her wine of life , ere a single petal had fallen from her rose of joy .
Long life was before all the others who trysted that night in the old homestead orchard ; but Cecily 's maiden feet were never to leave the golden road .
CHAPTER XXXI .
THE LAST NUMBER OF OUR MAGAZINE EDITORIAL It is with heartfelt regret that we take up our pen to announce that this will be the last number of Our Magazine .
We have edited ten numbers of it and it has been successful beyond our expectations .
It has to be discontinued by reason of circumstances over which we have no control and not because we have lost interest in it .
Everybody has done his or her best for Our Magazine .
Prince Edward Island expected everyone to do his and her duty and everyone did it .
Mr. Dan King conducted the etiquette department in a way worthy of the Family Guide itself .
He is especially entitled to commendation because he laboured under the disadvantage of having to furnish most of the questions as well as the answers .
Miss Felicity King has edited our helpful household department very ably , and Miss Cecily King 's fashion notes were always up to date .
The personal column was well looked after by Miss Sara Stanley and the story page has been a marked success under the able management of Mr. Peter Craig , to whose original story in this issue , `` The Battle of the Partridge Eggs , '' we would call especial attention .
The Exciting Adventure series has also been very popular .
And now , in closing , we bid farewell to our staff and thank them one and all for their help and co-operation in the past year .
We have enjoyed our work and we trust that they have too .
We wish them all happiness and success in years to come , and we hope that the recollection of Our Magazine will not be held least dear among the memories of their childhood .
-LRB- SOBS FROM THE GIRLS -RRB- : `` INDEED IT WO N'T ! ''
OBITUARY On October eighteenth , Patrick Grayfur departed for that bourne whence no traveller returns .
He was only a cat , but he had been our faithful friend for a long time and we are n't ashamed to be sorry for him .
There are lots of people who are not as friendly and gentlemanly as Paddy was , and he was a great mouser .
We buried all that was mortal of poor Pat in the orchard and we are never going to forget him .
We have resolved that whenever the date of his death comes round we 'll bow our heads and pronounce his name at the hour of his funeral .
If we are anywhere where we ca n't say the name out loud we 'll whisper it .
`` Farewell , dearest Paddy , in all the years that are to be We 'll cherish your memory faithfully . ''
-LSB- 1 -RSB- MY MOST EXCITING ADVENTURE My most exciting adventure was the day I fell off Uncle Roger 's loft two years ago .
I was n't excited until it was all over because I had n't time to be .
The Story Girl and I were looking for eggs in the loft .
It was filled with wheat straw nearly to the roof and it was an awful distance from us to the floor .
And wheat straw is so slippery .
I made a little spring and the straw slipped from under my feet and there I was going head first down from the loft .
It seemed to me I was an awful long time falling , but the Story Girl says I could n't have been more than three seconds .
But I know that I thought five thoughts and there seemed to be quite a long time between them .
The first thing I thought was , what has happened , because I really did n't know at first , it was so sudden .
Then after a spell I thought the answer , I am falling off the loft .
And then I thought , what will happen to me when I strike the floor , and after another little spell I thought , I 'll be killed .
And then I thought , well , I do n't care .
I really was n't a bit frightened .
I just was quite willing to be killed .
If there had n't been a big pile of chaff on the barn floor these words would never have been written .
But there was and I fell on it and was n't a bit hurt , only my hair and mouth and eyes and ears got all full of chaff .
The strange part is that I was n't a bit frightened when I thought I was going to be killed , but after all the danger was over I was awfully frightened and trembled so the Story Girl had to help me into the house .
FELICITY KING .
THE BATTLE OF THE PARTRIDGE EGGS Once upon a time there lived about half a mile from a forrest a farmer and his wife and his sons and daughters and a granddaughter .
The farmer and his wife loved this little girl very much but she caused them great trouble by running away into the woods and they often spent haf days looking for her .
One day she wondered further into the forrest than usual and she begun to be hungry .
Then night closed in .
She asked a fox where she could get something to eat .
The fox told her he knew where there was a partridges nest and a bluejays nest full of eggs .
So he led her to the nests and she took five eggs out of each .
When the birds came home they missed the eggs and flew into a rage .
The bluejay put on his topcoat and was going to the partridge for law when he met the partridge coming to him .
They lit up a fire and commenced sining their deeds when they heard a tremendous howl close behind them .
They jumped up and put out the fire and were immejutly attacked by five great wolves .
The next day the little girl was rambelling through the woods when they saw her and took her prisoner .
After she had confessed that she had stole the eggs they told her to raise an army .
They would have to fight over the nests of eggs and whoever one would have the eggs .
So the partridge raised a great army of all kinds of birds except robins and the little girl got all the robins and foxes and bees and wasps .
And best of all the little girl had a gun and plenty of ammunishun .
The leader of her army was a wolf .
The result of the battle was that all the birds were killed except the partridge and the bluejay and they were taken prisoner and starved to death .
The little girl was then taken prisoner by a witch and cast into a dunjun full of snakes where she died from their bites and people who went through the forrest after that were taken prisoner by her ghost and cast into the same dunjun where they died .
About a year after the wood turned into a gold castle and one morning everything had vanished except a piece of a tree .
PETER CRAIG .
-LRB- DAN , WITH A WHISTLE : -- `` Well , I guess nobody can say Peter ca n't write fiction after THAT . ''
SARA RAY , WIPING AWAY HER TEARS : -- `` It 's a very interesting story , but it ends SO sadly . ''
FELIX : -- `` What made you call it The Battle of the Partridge Eggs when the bluejay had just as much to do with it ? ''
PETER , SHORTLY : -- `` Because it sounded better that way . ''
FELICITY : -- `` Did she eat the eggs raw ? ''
SARA RAY : -- `` Poor little thing , I suppose if you 're starving you ca n't be very particular . ''
CECILY , SIGHING : -- `` I wish you 'd let her go home safe , Peter , and not put her to such a cruel death . ''
BEVERLEY : -- `` I do n't quite understand where the little girl got her gun and ammunition . ''
PETER , SUSPECTING THAT HE IS BEING MADE FUN OF : -- `` If you could write a better story , why did n't you ?
I give you the chance . ''
THE STORY GIRL , WITH A PRETERNATURALLY SOLEMN FACE : -- `` You should n't criticize Peter 's story like that .
It 's a fairy tale , you know , and anything can happen in a fairy tale . ''
FELICITY : -- `` There is n't a word about fairies in it ! ''
CECILY : -- `` Besides , fairy tales always end nicely and this does n't . ''
PETER , SULKILY : -- `` I wanted to punish her for running away from home . ''
DAN : -- `` Well , I guess you did it all right . ''
CECILY : -- `` Oh , well , it was very interesting , and that is all that is really necessary in a story . '' -RRB-
PERSONALS Mr. Blair Stanley is visiting friends and relatives in Carlisle .
He intends returning to Europe shortly .
His daughter , Miss Sara , will accompany him .
Mr. Alan King is expected home from South America next month .
His sons will return with him to Toronto .
Beverley and Felix have made hosts of friends during their stay in Carlisle and will be much missed in social circles .
The Mission Band of Carlisle Presbyterian Church completed their missionary quilt last week .
Miss Cecily King collected the largest sum on her square .
Congratulations , Cecily .
Mr. Peter Craig will be residing in Markdale after October and will attend school there this winter .
Peter is a good fellow and we all wish him success and prosperity .
Apple picking is almost ended .
There was an unusually heavy crop this year .
Potatoes , not so good .
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Apple pies are the order of the day .
Eggs are a very good price now .
Uncle Roger says it is n't fair to have to pay as much for a dozen little eggs as a dozen big ones , but they go just as far .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT F-l-t-y .
Is it considered good form to eat peppermints in church ?
Ans. ; No , not if a witch gives them to you .
No , F-l-x , we would not call Treasure Island or the Pilgrim 's Progress dime novels .
Yes , P-t-r , when you call on a young lady and her mother offers you a slice of bread and jam it is quite polite for you to accept it .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Necklaces of roseberries are very much worn now .
It is considered smart to wear your school hat tilted over your left eye .
Bangs are coming in .
Em Frewen has them .
She went to Summerside for a visit and came back with them .
All the girls in school are going to bang their hair as soon as their mothers will let them .
But I do not intend to bang mine .
CECILY KING .
-LRB- SARA RAY , DESPAIRINGLY : -- `` I know ma will never let ME have bangs . '' -RRB-
FUNNY PARAGRAPHS D-n .
What are details ?
C-l-y .
I am not sure , but I think they are things that are left over .
-LRB- CECILY , WONDERINGLY : -- `` I do n't see why that was put among the funny paragraphs .
Should n't it have gone in the General Information department ? '' -RRB-
Old Mr. McIntyre 's son on the Markdale Road had been very sick for several years and somebody was sympathizing with him because his son was going to die .
`` Oh , '' Mr. McIntyre said , quite easy , `` he might as weel be awa ' .
He 's only retarding buzziness . ''
FELIX KING .
GENERAL INFORMATION BUREAU P-t-r .
What kind of people live in uninhabited places ?
Ans. : Cannibals , likely .
FELIX KING .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : The obituary was written by Mr. Felix King , but the two lines of poetry were composed by Miss Sara Ray . -RSB-
CHAPTER XXXII .
OUR LAST EVENING TOGETHER IT was the evening before the day on which the Story Girl and Uncle Blair were to leave us , and we were keeping our last tryst together in the orchard where we had spent so many happy hours .
We had made a pilgrimage to all the old haunts -- the hill field , the spruce wood , the dairy , Grandfather King 's willow , the Pulpit Stone , Pat 's grave , and Uncle Stephen 's Walk ; and now we foregathered in the sere grasses about the old well and feasted on the little jam turnovers Felicity had made that day specially for the occasion .
`` I wonder if we 'll ever all be together again , '' sighed Cecily .
`` I wonder when I 'll get jam turnovers like this again , '' said the Story Girl , trying to be gay but not making much of a success of it .
`` If Paris was n't so far away I could send you a box of nice things now and then , '' said Felicity forlornly , `` but I suppose there 's no use thinking of that .
Dear knows what they 'll give you to eat over there . ''
`` Oh , the French have the reputation of being the best cooks in the world , '' rejoined the Story Girl , `` but I know they ca n't beat your jam turnovers and plum puffs , Felicity .
Many a time I 'll be hankering after them . ''
`` If we ever do meet again you 'll be grown up , '' said Felicity gloomily .
`` Well , you wo n't have stood still yourselves , you know . ''
`` No , but that 's just the worst of it .
We 'll all be different and everything will be changed . ''
`` Just think , '' said Cecily , `` last New Year 's Eve we were wondering what would happen this year ; and what a lot of things have happened that we never expected .
Oh , dear ! ''
`` If things never happened life would be pretty dull , '' said the Story Girl briskly .
`` Oh , do n't look so dismal , all of you . ''
`` It 's hard to be cheerful when everybody 's going away , '' sighed Cecily .
`` Well , let 's pretend to be , anyway , '' insisted the Story Girl .
`` Do n't let 's think of parting .
Let 's think instead of how much we 've laughed this last year or so .
I 'm sure I shall never forget this dear old place .
We 've had so many good times here . ''
`` And some bad times , too , '' reminded Felix .
`` Remember when Dan et the bad berries last summer ? ''
`` And the time we were so scared over that bell ringing in the house , '' grinned Peter .
`` And the Judgment Day , '' added Dan .
`` And the time Paddy was bewitched , '' suggested Sara Ray .
`` And when Peter was dying of the measles , '' said Felicity .
`` And the time Jimmy Patterson was lost , '' said Dan .
`` Gee-whiz , but that scared me out of a year 's growth . ''
`` Do you remember the time we took the magic seed , '' grinned Peter .
`` Were n't we silly ? ''
said Felicity .
`` I really can never look Billy Robinson in the face when I meet him .
I 'm always sure he 's laughing at me in his sleeve . ''
`` It 's Billy Robinson who ought to be ashamed when he meets you or any of us , '' commented Cecily severely .
`` I 'd rather be cheated than cheat other people . ''
`` Do you mind the time we bought God 's picture ? ''
asked Peter .
`` I wonder if it 's where we buried it yet , '' speculated Felix .
`` I put a stone over it , just as we did over Pat , '' said Cecily .
`` I wish I could forget what God looks like , '' sighed Sara Ray .
`` I ca n't forget it -- and I ca n't forget what the bad place is like either , ever since Peter preached that sermon on it . ''
`` When you get to be a real minister you 'll have to preach that sermon over again , Peter , '' grinned Dan .
`` My Aunt Jane used to say that people needed a sermon on that place once in a while , '' retorted Peter seriously .
`` Do you mind the night I et the cucumbers and milk to make me dream ? ''
said Cecily .
And therewith we hunted out our old dream books to read them again , and , forgetful of coming partings , laughed over them till the old orchard echoed to our mirth .
When we had finished we stood in a circle around the well and pledged `` eternal friendship '' in a cup of its unrivalled water .
Then we joined hands and sang `` Auld Lang Syne . ''
Sara Ray cried bitterly in lieu of singing .
`` Look here , '' said the Story Girl , as we turned to leave the old orchard , `` I want to ask a favour of you all .
Do n't say good-bye to me tomorrow morning . ''
`` Why not ? ''
demanded Felicity in astonishment .
`` Because it 's such a hopeless sort of word .
Do n't let 's SAY it at all .
Just see me off with a wave of your hands .
It wo n't seem half so bad then .
And do n't any of you cry if you can help it .
I want to remember you all smiling . ''
We went out of the old orchard where the autumn night wind was beginning to make its weird music in the russet boughs , and shut the little gate behind us .
Our revels there were ended .
CHAPTER XXXIII .
THE STORY GIRL GOES The morning dawned , rosy and clear and frosty .
Everybody was up early , for the travellers must leave in time to catch the nine o'clock train .
The horse was harnessed and Uncle Alec was waiting by the door .
Aunt Janet was crying , but everybody else was making a valiant effort not to .
The Awkward Man and Mrs. Dale came to see the last of their favourite .
Mrs. Dale had brought her a glorious sheaf of chrysanthemums , and the Awkward Man gave her , quite gracefully , another little , old , limp book from his library .
`` Read it when you are sad or happy or lonely or discouraged or hopeful , '' he said gravely .
`` He has really improved very much since he got married , '' whispered Felicity to me .
Sara Stanley wore a smart new travelling suit and a blue felt hat with a white feather .
She looked so horribly grown up in it that we felt as if she were lost to us already .
Sara Ray had vowed tearfully the night before that she would be up in the morning to say farewell .
But at this juncture Judy Pineau appeared to say that Sara , with her usual luck , had a sore throat , and that her mother consequently would not permit her to come .
So Sara had written her parting words in a three-cornered pink note .
`` My OWN DARLING FRIEND : -- WORDS CAN NOT EXPRESS my feelings over not being able to go up this morning to say good-bye to one I so FONDLY ADORE .
When I think that I can not SEE YOU AGAIN my heart is almost TOO FULL FOR UTTERANCE .
But mother says I can not and I MUST OBEY .
But I will be present IN SPIRIT .
It just BREAKS MY HEART that you are going SO FAR AWAY .
You have always been SO KIND to me and never hurt my feelings AS SOME DO and I shall miss you SO MUCH .
But I earnestly HOPE AND PRAY that you will be HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS wherever YOUR LOT IS CAST and not be seasick on THE GREAT OCEAN .
I hope you will find time AMONG YOUR MANY DUTIES to write me a letter ONCE IN A WHILE .
I shall ALWAYS REMEMBER YOU and please remember me .
I hope we WILL MEET AGAIN sometime , but if not may we meet in A FAR BETTER WORLD where there are no SAD PARTINGS .
`` Your true and loving friend , `` SARA RAY '' `` Poor little Sara , '' said the Story Girl , with a queer catch in her voice , as she slipped the tear-blotted note into her pocket .
`` She is n't a bad little soul , and I 'm sorry I could n't see her once more , though maybe it 's just as well for she 'd have to cry and set us all off .
I WO N'T cry .
Felicity , do n't you dare .
Oh , you dear , darling people , I love you all so much and I 'll go on loving you always . ''
`` Mind you write us every week at the very least , '' said Felicity , winking furiously .
`` Blair , Blair , watch over the child well , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` Remember , she has no mother . ''
The Story Girl ran over to the buggy and climbed in .
Uncle Blair followed her .
Her arms were full of Mrs. Dale 's chrysanthemums , held close up to her face , and her beautiful eyes shone softly at us over them .
No good-byes were said , as she wished .
We all smiled bravely and waved our hands as they drove out of the lane and down the moist red road into the shadows of the fir wood in the valley .
But we still stood there , for we knew we should see the Story Girl once more .
Beyond the fir wood was an open curve in the road and she had promised to wave a last farewell as they passed around it .
We watched the curve in silence , standing in a sorrowful little group in the sunshine of the autumn morning .
The delight of the world had been ours on the golden road .
It had enticed us with daisies and rewarded us with roses .
Blossom and lyric had waited on our wishes .
Thoughts , careless and sweet , had visited us .
Laughter had been our comrade and fearless Hope our guide .
But now the shadow of change was over it .
`` There she is , '' cried Felicity .
The Story Girl stood up and waved her chrysanthemums at us .
We waved wildly back until the buggy had driven around the curve .
Then we went slowly and silently back to the house .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Vision_of_the_Fountain_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
At fifteen , I became a resident in a country village , more than a hundred miles from home .
The morning after my arrival -- a September morning , but warm and bright as any in July -- I rambled into a wood of oaks , with a few walnut-trees intermixed , forming the closest shade above my head .
The ground was rocky , uneven , overgrown with bushes and clumps of young saplings , and traversed only by cattle-paths .
The track , which I chanced to follow , led me to a crystal spring , with a border of grass , as freshly green as on May morning , and overshadowed by the limb of a great oak .
One solitary sunbeam found its way down , and played like a goldfish in the water .
From my childhood , I have loved to gaze into a spring .
The water filled a circular basin , small but deep , and set round with stones , some of which were covered with slimy moss , the others naked , and of variegated hue , reddish , white , and brown .
The bottom was covered with coarse sand , which sparkled in the lonely sunbeam , and seemed to illuminate the spring with an unborrowed light .
In one spot , the gush of the water violently agitated the sand , but without obscuring the fountain , or breaking the glassiness of its surface .
It appeared as if some living creature were about to emerge -- the Naiad of the spring , perhaps -- in the shape of a beautiful young woman , with a gown of filmy water-moss , a belt of rainbow-drops , and a cold , pure , passionless countenance .
How would the beholder shiver , pleasantly , yet fearfully , to see her sitting on one of the stones , paddling her white feet in the ripples , and throwing up water , to sparkle in the sun !
Wherever she laid her hands on grass and flowers , they would immediately be moist , as with morning dew .
Then would she set about her labors , like a careful housewife , to clear the fountain of withered leaves , and bits of slimy wood , and old acorns from the oaks above , and grains of corn left by cattle in drinking , till the bright sand , in the bright water , were like a treasury of diamonds .
But , should the intruder approach too near , he would find only the drops of a summer shower glistening about the spot where he had seen her .
Reclining on the border of grass , where the dewy goddess should have been , I bent forward , and a pair of eyes met mine within the watery mirror .
They were the reflection of my own .
I looked again , and lo !
another face , deeper in the fountain than my own image , more distinct in all the features , yet faint as thought .
The vision had the aspect of a fair young girl , with locks of paly gold .
A mirthful expression laughed in the eyes and dimpled over the whole shadowy countenance , till it seemed just what a fountain would be , if , while dancing merrily into the sunshine , it should assume the shape of woman .
Through the dim rosiness of the cheeks , I could see the brown leaves , the slimy twigs , the acorns , and the sparkling sand .
The solitary sunbeam was diffused among the golden hair , which melted into its faint brightness , and became a glory round that head so beautiful !
My description can give no idea how suddenly the fountain was thus tenanted , and how soon it was left desolate .
I breathed ; and there was the face !
I held my breath ; and it was gone !
Had it passed away , or faded into nothing ?
I doubted whether it had ever been .
My sweet readers , what a dreamy and delicious hour did I spend , where that vision found and left me !
For a long time I sat perfectly still , waiting till it should reappear , and fearful that the slightest motion , or even the flutter of my breath , might frighten it away .
Thus have I often started from a pleasant dream , and then kept quiet , in hopes to wile it back .
Deep were my musings , as to the race and attributes of that ethereal being .
Had I created her ?
Was she the daughter of my fancy , akin to those strange shapes which peep under the lids of children 's eyes ?
And did her beauty gladden me , for that one moment , and then die ?
Or was she a water-nymph within the fountain , or fairy , or woodland goddess peeping over my shoulder , or the ghost of some forsaken maid , who had drowned herself for love ?
Or , in good truth , had a lovely girl , with a warm heart , and lips that would bear pressure , stolen softly behind me , and thrown her image into the spring ?
I watched and waited , but no vision came again .
I departed , but with a spell upon me , which drew me back , that same afternoon , to the haunted spring .
There was the water gushing , the sand sparkling , and the sunbeam glimmering .
There the vision was not , but only a great frog , the hermit of that solitude , who immediately withdrew his speckled snout and made himself invisible , all except a pair of long legs , beneath a stone .
Methought he had a devilish look !
I could have slain him !
Thus did the Vision leave me ; and many a doleful day succeeded to the parting moment .
By the spring , and in the wood , and on the hill , and through the village ; at dewy sunrise , burning noon , and at that magic hour of sunset , when she had vanished from my sight , I sought her , but in vain .
Weeks came and went , months rolled away , and she appeared not in them .
I imparted my mystery to none , but wandered to and fro , or sat in solitude , like one that had caught a glimpse of heaven , and could take no more joy on earth .
I withdrew into an inner world , where my thoughts lived and breathed , and the Vision in the midst of them .
Without intending it , I became at once the author and hero of a romance , conjuring up rivals , imagining events , the actions of others and my own , and experiencing every change of passion , till jealousy and despair had their end in bliss .
O , had I the burning fancy of my early youth , with manhood 's colder gift , the power of expression , your hearts , sweet ladies , should flutter at my tale !
In the middle of January , I was summoned home .
The day before my departure , visiting the spots which had been hallowed by the Vision , I found that the spring had a frozen bosom , and nothing but the snow and a glare of winter sunshine , on the hill of the rainbow .
`` Let me hope , '' thought I , `` or my heart will be as icy as the fountain , and the whole world as desolate as this snowy hill . ''
Most of the day was spent in preparing for the journey , which was to commence at four o'clock the next morning .
About an hour after supper , when all was in readiness , I descended from my chamber to the sitting-room , to take leave of the old clergyman and his family , with whom I had been an inmate .
A gust of wind blew out my lamp as I passed through the entry .
According to their invariable custom , so pleasant a one when the fire blazes cheerfully , the family were sitting in the parlor , with no other light than what came from the hearth .
As the good clergyman 's scanty stipend compelled him to use all sorts of economy , the foundation of his fires was always a large heap of tan , or ground bark , which would smoulder away , from morning till night , with a dull warmth and no flame .
This evening the heap of tan was newly put on , and surmounted with three sticks of red-oak , full of moisture , and a few pieces of dry pine , that had not yet kindled .
There was no light , except the little that came sullenly from two half-burned brands , without even glimmering on the andirons .
But I knew the position of the old minister 's arm-chair , and also where his wife sat , with her knitting-work , and how to avoid his two daughters , one a stout country lass , and the other a consumptive girl .
Groping through the gloom , I found my own place next to that of the son , a learned collegian , who had come home to keep school in the village during the winter vacation .
I noticed that there was less room than usual , to-night , between the collegian 's chair and mine .
As people are always taciturn in the dark , not a word was said for some time after my entrance .
Nothing broke the stillness but the regular click of the matron 's knitting-needles .
At times , the fire threw out a brief and dusky gleam , which twinkled on the old man 's glasses , and hovered doubtfully round our circle , but was far too faint to portray the individuals who composed it .
Were we not like ghosts ?
Dreamy as the scene was , might it not be a type of the mode in which departed people , who had known and loved each other here , would hold communion in eternity ?
We were aware of each other 's presence , not by sight , nor sound , nor touch , but by an inward consciousness .
Would it not be so among the dead ?
The silence was interrupted by the consumptive daughter , addressing a remark to some one in the circle , whom she called Rachel .
Her tremulous and decayed accents were answered by a single word , but in a voice that made me start , and bend towards the spot whence it had proceeded .
Had I ever heard that sweet , low tone ?
If not , why did it rouse up so many old recollections , or mockeries of such , the shadows of things familiar , yet unknown , and fill my mind with confused images of her features who had spoken , though buried in the gloom of the parlor ?
Whom had my heart recognized , that it throbbed so ?
I listened , to catch her gentle breathing , and strove , by the intensity of my gaze , to picture forth a shape where none was visible .
Suddenly , the dry pine caught ; the fire blazed up with a ruddy glow ; and where the darkness had been , there was she , -- the Vision of the Fountain !
A spirit of radiance only , she had vanished with the rainbow , and appeared again in the firelight , perhaps to flicker with the blaze , and be gone .
Yet , her cheek was rosy and life-like , and her features , in the bright warmth of the room , were even sweeter and tenderer than my recollection of them .
She knew me !
The mirthful expression that had laughed in her eyes and dimpled over her countenance , when I beheld her faint beauty in the fountain , was laughing and dimpling there now .
One moment our glance mingled , -- the next , down rolled the heap of tan upon the kindled wood , -- and darkness snatched away that Daughter of the Light , and gave her back to me no more !
Fair ladies , there is nothing more to tell .
Must the simple mystery be revealed , then , that Rachel was the daughter of the village squire , and had left home for a boarding-school , the morning after I arrived , and returned the day before my departure ?
If I transformed her to an angel , it is what every youthful lover does for his mistress .
Therein consists the essence of my story .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Happy_Jack.txt.out
CHAPTER I HAPPY JACK DROPS A NUT Save a little every day , And for the future put away .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel sat on the tip of one of the highest branches of a big hickory tree .
Happy Jack was up very early that morning .
In fact , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was still in his bed behind the Purple Hills when Happy Jack hopped briskly out of bed .
He washed himself thoroughly and was ready for business by the time Mr. Sun began his climb up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , Happy Jack had found that big hickory tree just loaded with nuts all ripe and ready to gather .
He was quite sure that no one else had found that special tree , and he wanted to get all the nuts before any one else found out about them .
So he was all ready and off he raced to the big tree just as soon as it was light enough to see .
`` The nuts that grow in the hickory tree -- They 're all for me !
They 're all for me ! ''
Happy Jack was humming that little song as he rested for a few minutes ` way up in the top of the tree and wondered if his storehouse would hold all these big , fat nuts .
Just then he heard a great scolding a little way over in the Green Forest .
Happy Jack stopped humming and listened .
He knew that voice .
It was his cousin 's voice -- the voice of Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
Happy Jack frowned .
`` I hope he wo n't come over this way , '' muttered Happy Jack .
He does not love his cousin Chatterer anyway , and then there was the big tree full of hickory nuts !
He did n't want Chatterer to find that .
I am afraid that Happy Jack was selfish .
There were more nuts than he could possibly eat in one winter , and yet he was n't willing that his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , should have a single one .
Now Chatterer is short-tempered and a great scold .
Some one or something had upset him this morning , and he was scolding as fast as his tongue could go , as he came running right towards the tree in which Happy Jack was sitting .
Happy Jack sat perfectly still and watched .
He did n't move so much as the tip of his big gray tail .
Would Chatterer go past and not see that big tree full of nuts ?
It looked very much as if he would , for he was so busy scolding that he was n't paying much attention to other things .
Happy Jack smiled as Chatterer came running under the tree without once looking up .
He was so tickled that he started to hug himself and did n't remember that he was holding a big , fat nut in his hands .
Of course he dropped it .
Where do you think it went ?
Well , Sir , it fell straight down , from the top of that tall tree , and it landed right on the head of Chatterer the Red Squirrel !
`` My stars ! ''
cried Chatterer , stopping his scolding and his running together , and rubbing his head where the nut had hit him .
Then he looked up to see where it had come from .
Of course , he looked straight up at Happy Jack .
`` You did that purposely ! ''
screamed Chatterer , his short temper flaring up .
`` I did n't ! ''
snapped Happy Jack .
`` You did ! ''
`` I did n't ! ''
Oh , dear , oh , dear , such a sight !
two little Squirrels , one in a gray suit and one in a red suit , contradicting each other and calling names !
It was such a sad , sad sight , for you know they were cousins .
CHAPTER II THE QUARREL It 's up to you and up to me To see how thrifty we can be .
To do our bit like soldiers true It 's up to me and up to you .
Happy Jack .
Two angry little people were making a dreadful noise in the Green Forest .
It was a beautiful morning , a very beautiful fall morning , but all the beauty of it was being spoiled by the dreadful noise these two little people .
You see they were quarreling .
Yes , Sir , they were quarreling , and it was n't at all nice to see or nice to hear .
You know who they were .
One was Happy Jack Squirrel , who wears a coat of gray , and the other was Chatterer the Red Squirrel , who always wears a red coat with vest of white .
When Happy Jack had dropped that nut from the tiptop of the tall hickory tree and it had landed right on top of Chatterer 's head it really had been an accident .
All the time Happy Jack had been sitting as still as still could be , hoping that his cousin Chatterer would pass by without looking up and so seeing the big fat nuts in the top of that tree .
You see Happy Jack was greedy and wanted all of them himself .
Now Chatterer the Red Squirrel has a sharp temper , and also he has sharp eyes .
All the time he was scolding Happy Jack and calling him names Chatterer 's bright eyes were taking note of all those big , fat hickory-nuts and his mouth began to water .
Without wasting any more time he started up the tree to get some .
Happy Jack grew very angry , very angry indeed .
He hurried down to meet Chatterer the Red Squirrel and to prevent him climbing the tree .
`` You keep out of this tree ; it 's mine ! ''
he shrieked .
`` No such thing !
You do n't own the tree and I 've got just as much right here as you have ! ''
screamed Chatterer , dodging around to the other side of the tree . ''
'T is , too , mine !
I found it first ! ''
shouted Happy Jack .
`` You 're a thief , so there ! ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
`` You are ! ''
`` You 're a pig , Happy Jack !
You 're just a great big pig ! ''
`` I 'm not a pig !
I found these nuts first and I tell you they 're mine ! ''
shrieked Happy Jack , so angry that every time he spoke he jerked his tail .
And all the time he was chasing round and round the trunk of the tree trying to prevent Chatterer getting up .
Now Happy Jack is ever so much bigger than his cousin Chatterer but he is n't as spry .
So in spite of him Chatterer got past , and like a little red flash was up in the top of the tree where the big , fat nuts were .
But he did n't have time to pick even one , for after him came Happy Jack so angry that Chatterer knew that he would fare badly if Happy Jack should catch him .
Round and round , over and across , this way and that way , in the top of the tall hickory tree raced Chatterer the Red Squirrel with his cousin , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , right at his heels , and calling him everything bad to be thought of .
Yes , indeed it was truly dreadful , and Peter Rabbit , who happened along just then , put his hands over his ears so as not to hear such a dreadful quarrel .
-LSB- Illustration : PETER RABBIT , WHO HAPPENED ALONG JUST THEN , PUT HIS HANDS OVER HIS EARS . -RSB-
CHAPTER III STRIPED CHIPMUNK IS KEPT VERY BUSY I prefer big acorns but I never refuse little ones .
They fit in between .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk was sitting just inside a hollow log , studying about how he could fill up his new storehouse for the winter .
Striped Chipmunk is very thrifty .
He likes to play , and he is one of the merriest of all the little people who live on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest .
He lives right on the edge of both and knows everybody , and everybody knows him .
Almost every morning the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind hurry over to have a frolic with him the very first thing .
But though he dearly loves to play , he never lets play interfere with work .
Whatever he does , be it play or work , he does with all his might .
`` I love the sun ; I love the rain ; I love to work ; I love to play .
Whatever it may bring to me I love each minute of each day . ''
So said Striped Chipmunk , as he sat in the hollow log and studied how he could fill that splendid big new storehouse .
Pretty soon he pricked up his funny little ears .
What was all that noise over in the Green Forest ?
Striped Chipmunk peeped out of the hollow log .
Over in the top of a tall hickory tree a terrible fuss was going on .
Striped Chipmunk listened .
He heard angry voices , such angry voices !
They were the voices of his big cousins , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
`` Dear me !
Dear me !
How those two do quarrel !
I must go over and see what it is all about , '' thought Striped Chipmunk .
So , with a flirt of his funny , little tail , he scampered out of the hollow log and over to the tall hickory tree .
He knew all about that tree .
Many , many times he had looked up at the big fat nuts in the top of it , watching them grow bigger and fatter , and hoping that when they grew ripe , Old Mother West Wind would find time to shake them down to him .
You know Striped Chipmunk is not much of a climber , and so he can not go up and pick the nuts as do his big cousins , Happy Jack and Chatterer .
When he reached the tall hickory tree , what do you think was happening ?
Why , those big , fat nuts were rattling down to the ground on every side , just as if Old Mother West Wind was shaking the tree as hard as she could .
But Old Mother West Wind was n't there at all .
No , Sir , there was n't even one of the Merry Little Breezes up in the tree-tops .
The big fat nuts were rattling down just on account of the dreadful quarrel of Striped Chipmunk 's two foolish cousins , Happy Jack and Chatterer .
It was all because Happy Jack was greedy .
Chatterer had climbed the tree , and now Happy Jack , who is bigger but not so spry , was chasing Chatterer round and round and over the tree-top , and both were so angry that they did n't once notice that they were knocking down the very nuts over which they were quarreling .
Striped Chipmunk did n't stop to listen to the quarrel .
No , Sir-ee !
He stuffed a big fat nut in each pocket in his cheeks and scampered back to his splendid new storehouse as fast as his little legs would take him .
Back and forth , back and forth , scampered Striped Chipmunk , and all the time he was laughing inside and hoping his big cousins would keep right on quarreling .
CHAPTER IV HAPPY JACK AND CHATTERER FEEL FOOLISH If you get and spend a penny , Then of course you have n't any .
Be like me -- a Happy Jack -- And put it where you 'll get it back .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack and Chatterer were out of breath .
Happy Jack was puffing and blowing , for he is big and fat , and it is not so easy for him to race about in the tree-tops as it is for his smaller , slim , nimble cousin , Chatterer .
So Happy Jack was the first to stop .
He sat on a branch ` way up in the top of the tall hickory tree and glared across at Chatterer , who sat on a branch on the other side of the tall tree .
`` Could n't catch me , could you , smarty ? ''
taunted Chatterer .
`` You just wait until I do !
I 'll make you sorry you ever came near my hickory tree , '' snapped Happy Jack .
`` I 'm waiting .
Besides , it is n't your tree any more than it 's mine , '' replied Chatterer , and made a face at Happy Jack .
Happy Jack hopped up as if he meant to begin the chase again , but he had a pain in his side from running so hard and so long , and so he sat down again .
Right down in his heart Happy Jack knew that Chatterer was right , that the tree did n't belong to him any more than to his cousin .
But when he thought of all those big , fat nuts with which the tall hickory tree had been loaded , greedy thoughts chased out all thoughts of right and he said to himself again , as he had said when he first saw his cousin , that Chatterer should n't have one of them .
He stopped scolding long enough to steal a look at them , and then -- what do you think Happy Jack did ?
Why , he gave such a jump of surprise that he nearly lost his balance .
Not a nut was to be seen !
Happy Jack blinked .
Then , he rubbed his eyes and looked again .
He could n't see a nut anywhere !
There were the husks in which the nuts had grown big and fat until they were ripe , but now every husk was empty .
Chatterer saw the queer look on Happy Jack 's face , and he looked too .
Now Chatterer the Red Squirrel had very quick wits , and he guessed right away what had happened .
He knew that while they had been quarreling and racing over the top of the tall hickory tree , they must have knocked down all the nuts , which were just ready to fall anyway .
Like a little red flash , Chatterer started down the tree .
Then Happy Jack guessed too , and down he started as fast as he could go , crying , `` Stop , thief ! ''
all the way .
When he reached the ground , there was Chatterer scurrying around and poking under the fallen leaves , but he had n't found a single nut .
Happy Jack could n't stop to quarrel any more , because you see he was afraid that Chatterer would find the biggest and fattest nuts , so he began to scurry around and hunt too .
It was queer , very queer , how those nuts could have hidden so !
They hunted and hunted , but no nuts were to be found .
Then they stopped and stared up at the top of the tall hickory tree .
Not a nut could they see .
Then they stared at each other , and gradually a foolish , a very foolish look crept over each face .
`` Where -- where do you suppose they have gone ? ''
asked Happy Jack in a queer-sounding voice .
Just then they heard some one laughing fit to kill himself .
It was Peter Rabbit .
`` Did you take our hickory nuts ? ''
they both shouted angrily .
`` No , '' replied Peter , `` no , I did n't take them , though they were not yours , anyway ! ''
And then he went off into another fit of laughter , for Peter had seen Striped Chipmunk very hard at work taking away those very nuts while his two big cousins had been quarreling in the tree-top .
CHAPTER V HAPPY JACK SUSPECTS STRIPED CHIPMUNK Thrift is one test of true loyalty to your country .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack did n't look happy a bit .
Indeed , Happy Jack looked very unhappy .
You see , he looked just as he felt .
He had set his heart on having all the big , fat nuts that he had found in the top of that tall hickory tree , and now , instead of having all of them , he had n't any of them .
Worse still , he knew right down in his heart that it was his own fault .
He had been too greedy .
But what had become of those nuts ?
Happy Jack was studying about this as he sat with his back against a big chestnut tree .
He remembered how hard Peter Rabbit had laughed when Happy Jack and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , had been so surprised because they could not find the nuts they had knocked down .
Peter had n't taken them , for Peter has no use for them , but he must know what had become of them , for he was still laughing as he had gone off down the Lone Little Path .
While he was thinking of all this , Happy Jack 's bright eyes had been wide open , as they usually are , so that no danger should come near .
Suddenly they saw something moving among the brown-and-yellow leaves on the ground .
Happy Jack looked sharply , and then a sudden thought popped into his head .
`` Hi , there , Cousin Chipmunk ! ''
he shouted .
`` Hi , there , your own self ! ''
replied Striped Chipmunk , for it was he .
`` What are you doing down there ? ''
asked Happy Jack .
`` Looking for hickory nuts , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , and his eyes twinkled as he said it , for there was n't a hickory tree near .
Happy Jack looked hard at Striped Chipmunk , for that sudden thought which had popped into his head when he first saw Striped Chipmunk was growing into a strong , a very strong , suspicion that Striped Chipmunk knew something about those lost hickory nuts .
But Striped Chipmunk looked back at him so innocently that Happy Jack did n't know just what to think .
`` Have you begun to fill your storehouse for winter yet ? ''
inquired Happy Jack .
`` Of course I have .
I do n't mean to let Jack Frost catch me with an empty storehouse , '' replied Striped Chipmunk .
`` When leaves turn yellow , brown , and red , And nuts come pitter , patter down ; When days are short and swiftly sped , And Autumn wears her colored gown , I 'm up before old Mr. Sun His nightcap has a chance to doff , And have my day 's work well begun When others kick their bedclothes off . ''
`` What are you filling your storehouse with ? ''
asked Happy Jack , trying not to show too much interest .
`` Corn , nice ripe yellow corn , and seeds and acorns and chestnuts , '' answered Striped Chipmunk .
`` And now I 'm looking for some big , fat hickory nuts , '' he added , and his bright eyes twinkled .
`` Have you seen any , Happy Jack ? ''
Happy Jack said that he had n't seen any , and Striped Chipmunk remarked that he could n't waste any more time talking , and scurried away .
Happy Jack watched him go , a puzzled little frown puckering up his brows .
`` I believe he knows something about those nuts .
I think I 'll follow him and have a peep into his storehouse , '' he muttered .
CHAPTER VI HAPPY JACK SPIES ON STRIPED CHIPMUNK It 's more important to mind your own affairs than to know what your neighbors are doing , but not nearly so interesting .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk was whisking about among the brown-and-yellow leaves that covered the ground on the edge of the Green Forest .
He is such a little fellow that he looked almost like a brown leaf himself , and when one of Old Mother West Wind 's Merry Little Breezes whirled the brown leaves in a mad little dance around him , it was the hardest work in the world to see Striped Chipmunk at all .
Anyway , Happy Jack Squirrel found it so .
You see , Happy Jack was spying on Striped Chipmunk .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack was spying .
Spying , you know , is secretly watching other people and trying to find out what they are doing .
It is n't a nice thing to do , not a bit nice .
Happy Jack knew it , and all the time he was doing it , he was feeling very much ashamed of himself .
But he said to himself that he just had to know where Striped Chipmunk 's storehouse was , because he just had to peep inside and find out if it held any of the big , fat hickory nuts that had disappeared from under the tall hickory tree while he was quarreling up in the top of it with his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
But spying on Striped Chipmunk is n't the easiest thing in the world .
Happy Jack was finding it the hardest work he had ever undertaken .
Striped Chipmunk is so spry , and whisks about so , that you need eyes all around your head to keep track of him .
Happy Jack found that his two eyes , bright and quick as they are , could n't keep that little elf of a cousin of his always in sight .
Every few minutes he would disappear and then bob up again in the most unexpected place and most provoking way .
`` Now I 'm here , and now I 'm there !
Now I am not anywhere !
Watch me now , for here I go Out of sight !
I told you so ! ''
With the last words , Striped Chipmunk was nowhere to be seen .
It seemed as if the earth must have opened and swallowed him .
But it had n't , for two minutes later Happy Jack saw him flirting his funny little tail in the sauciest way as he scampered along an old log .
Happy Jack began to suspect that Striped Chipmunk was just having fun with him .
What else could he mean by saying such things ?
And yet Happy Jack was sure that Striped Chipmunk had n't seen him , for , all the time he was watching , Happy Jack had taken the greatest care to keep hidden himself .
No , it could n't be , it just could n't be that Striped Chipmunk knew that he was anywhere about .
He would just be patient a little longer , and he would surely see that smart little cousin of his go to his storehouse .
So Happy Jack waited and watched .
CHAPTER VII STRIPED CHIPMUNK HAS FUN WITH HAPPY JACK Thrift is the meat in the nut of success .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk would shout in his shrillest voice : `` Hipperty , hopperty , one , two , three !
What do you think becomes of me ? ''
Then he would vanish from sight all in the wink of an eye .
You could n't tell where he went to .
At least Happy Jack could n't , and his eyes are sharper than yours or mine .
Happy Jack was spying , you remember .
He was watching Striped Chipmunk without letting Striped Chipmunk know it .
At least he thought he was .
But really he was n't .
Those sharp twinkling eyes of Striped Chipmunk see everything .
You know , he is such a very little fellow that he has to be very wide-awake to keep out of danger .
And he is wide-awake .
Oh , my , yes , indeed !
When he is awake , and that is every minute of the daytime , he is the most wide-awake little fellow you ever did see .
He had seen Happy Jack the very first thing , and he had guessed right away that Happy Jack was spying on him so as to find out if he had any of the big , fat hickory nuts .
Now Striped Chipmunk had all of those fat hickory nuts safely hidden in his splendid new storehouse , but he did n't intend to let Happy Jack know it .
So he just pretended not to see Happy Jack , or to know that he was anywhere near , but acted as if he was just going about his own business .
Really he was just having the best time ever fooling Happy Jack .
`` The corn is ripe ; the nuts do fall ; Acorns are sweet and plump .
I soon will have my storehouse full Inside the hollow stump . ''
Striped Chipmunk sang this just as if no one was anywhere near , and he was singing just for joy .
Of course Happy Jack heard it and he grinned .
`` So your storehouse is in a hollow stump , my smart little cousin ! ''
said Happy Jack to himself .
`` If that 's the case , I 'll soon find it . ''
Striped Chipmunk scurried along , and now he took pains to always keep in sight .
Happy Jack followed , hiding behind the trees .
Pretty soon Striped Chipmunk picked up a plump acorn and put it in the pocket of his right cheek .
Then he picked up another and put that in the pocket in his left cheek .
Then he crowded another into each ; and his face was swelled so that you would hardly have guessed that it was Striped Chipmunk if you had chanced to meet him .
My , my , he was a funny sight !
Happy Jack grinned again as he watched , partly because Striped Chipmunk looked so funny , and partly because he knew that if Striped Chipmunk was going to eat the acorns right away , he would n't stuff them into the pockets in his cheeks .
But he had done this very thing , and so he must be going to take them to his storehouse .
Off scampered Striped Chipmunk , and after him stole Happy Jack , his eyes shining with excitement .
Pretty soon he saw an old stump which looked as if it must be hollow .
Happy Jack grinned more than ever as he carefully hid himself and watched .
Striped Chipmunk scrambled up on the old stump , looked this way and that way , as if to be sure that no one was watching him , then with a flirt of his funny little tail he darted into a little round doorway .
He was gone a long time , but by and by out he popped , looked this way and that way , and then scampered off in the direction from which he had come .
Happy Jack did n't try to follow him .
He waited until he was sure that Striped Chipmunk was out of sight and hearing , and then he walked over to the old stump .
`` It 's his storehouse fast enough , '' said Happy Jack .
CHAPTER VIII HAPPY JACK TURNS BURGLAR As trees from little acorns , so Great sums from little pennies grow .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel stood in front of the old stump into which he had seen Striped Chipmunk go with the pockets in his cheeks full of acorns , and out of which he had come with the pockets of his cheeks quite empty .
`` It certainly is his storehouse , and now I 'll find out if he is the one who got all those big , fat hickory nuts , '' muttered Happy Jack .
First he looked this way , and then he looked that way , to be sure that no one saw him , for what he was planning to do was a very dreadful thing , and he knew it .
Happy Jack was going to turn burglar .
A burglar , you know , is one who breaks into another 's house or barn to steal , which is a very , very dreadful thing to do .
Yet this is just what Happy Jack Squirrel was planning to do .
He was going to get into that old stump , and if those big , fat hickory nuts were there , as he was sure they were , he was going to take them .
He tried very hard to make himself believe that it would n't be stealing .
He had watched those nuts in the top of the tall hickory tree so long that he had grown to think that they belonged to him .
Of course they did n't , but he had made himself think they did .
Happy Jack walked all around the old stump , and then he climbed up on top of it .
There was only one doorway , and that was the little round hole through which Striped Chipmunk had entered and then come out .
It was too small for Happy Jack to even get his head through , though his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , who is much smaller , could have slipped in easily .
Happy Jack sniffed and sniffed .
He could smell nuts and corn and other good things .
My , how good they did smell !
His eyes shone greedily .
Happy Jack took one more hasty look around to see that no one was watching , then with his long sharp teeth he began to make the doorway larger .
The wood was tough , but Happy Jack worked with might and main , for he wanted to get those nuts and get away before Striped Chipmunk should return , or any one else should happen along and see him .
Soon the hole was big enough for him to get his head inside .
It was a storehouse , sure enough .
Happy Jack worked harder than ever , and soon the hole was large enough for him to get wholly inside .
What a sight !
There was corn !
and there were chestnuts and acorns !
and there were a few hickory nuts , though these did not look so big and fat as the ones Happy Jack was looking for !
Happy Jack chuckled to himself , a wicked , greedy chuckle , as he looked .
And then something happened .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Stop it !
Leave me alone ! ''
yelled Happy Jack .
CHAPTER IX HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL 'S SAD MISTAKE A Squirrel always is thrifty .
Be as wise as a Squirrel .
Happy Jack .
`` Let me go !
Let me go ! ''
yelled Happy Jack , as he backed out of the hollow stump faster than he had gone in , a great deal faster .
Can you guess why ?
I 'll tell you .
It was because he was being pulled out .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack Squirrel was being pulled out by his big , bushy tail .
Happy Jack was more frightened than hurt .
To be sure , it is not at all comfortable to have one 's tail pulled , but Happy Jack would n't have minded this so much had it not been so unexpected , or if he could have seen who was pulling it .
And then , right inside Happy Jack did n't feel a bit good .
Why ?
Well , because he was doing a dreadful thing , and he knew that it was a dreadful thing .
He had broken into somebody 's storehouse to steal .
He was sure that it was Striped Chipmunk 's storehouse , and he would n't admit to himself that he was going to steal , actually steal .
But all the time , right down deep in his heart , he knew that if he took any of those hickory nuts it would be stealing .
But Happy Jack had been careless .
When he had made the doorway big enough for him to crawl inside , he had left his tail hanging outside .
Some one had very , very softly stolen up and grabbed it and begun to pull .
It was so sudden and unexpected that Happy Jack yelled with fright .
When he could get his wits together , he thought of course Striped Chipmunk had come back and was pulling his tail .
When he thought that , he got over his fright right away , for Striped Chipmunk is such a little fellow that Happy Jack knew that he had nothing ; to fear from him .
So as fast as he could , Happy Jack backed out of the hole and whirled around .
Of course he expected to face a very angry little Chipmunk .
But he did n't .
No , Sir , he did n't .
Instead , he looked right into the angry face of his other cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
And Chatterer was angry !
Oh my , my , how angry Chatterer was !
For a minute he could n't find his voice , because his anger fairly choked him .
And when he did , how his tongue did fly !
`` You thief !
You robber !
What are you doing in my storehouse ? ''
he shrieked .
Happy Jack backed away hurriedly , for though he is much bigger than Chatterer , he has a very wholesome respect for Chatterer 's sharp teeth , and when he is very angry , Chatterer is a great fighter .
`` I -- I did n't know it was your storehouse , '' said Happy Jack , backing away still further .
`` It does n't make any difference if you did n't ; you 're a thief just the same ! ''
screamed Chatterer and rushed at Happy Jack .
And what do you think Happy Jack did ?
Why , he just turned tail and ran , Chatterer after him , crying `` Thief !
Robber !
Coward ! ''
at the top of his lungs , so that every one in the Green Forest could hear .
CHAPTER X STRIPED CHIPMUNK 'S HAPPY THOUGHT Waste seems to me a dreadful sin ; It works to lose and not to win .
Thrift will win ; it can not lose .
Between them 't is for you to choose .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk sat on a mossy old log , laughing until his sides ached .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
Ho , ho , ho , ho , ho ! ''
laughed Striped Chipmunk , holding his sides .
Over in the Green Forest he could still hear Chatterer the Red Squirrel crying `` Thief !
Robber ! ''
as he chased his big cousin , Happy Jack , and every time he heard it , Striped Chipmunk laughed harder .
You see , Striped Chipmunk had known all the time that Happy Jack was spying on him , and he had had no end of fun fooling Happy Jack by suddenly disappearing and then bobbing into view .
He had known that Happy Jack was following him so as to find out where his storehouse was .
Then Striped Chipmunk had remembered the storehouse of Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
He had filled the pockets in his cheeks with acorns and gone straight over to Chatterer 's storehouse and put them inside , knowing that Happy Jack would follow him and would think that that was his storehouse .
And that is just what happened .
Then Striped Chipmunk had hidden himself where he could see all that happened .
He had seen Happy Jack look all around , to make sure that no one was near , and then tear open the little round doorway of Chatterer 's storehouse until it was big enough for him to squeeze through .
He had seen Chatterer come up , fly into a rage , and pull Happy Jack out by the tail .
Indeed , he had had to clap both hands over his mouth to keep from laughing out loud .
Then Happy Jack had turned tail and run away with Chatterer after him , shouting `` Thief '' and `` Robber '' at the top of his voice , and this had tickled Striped Chipmunk still more , for he knew that Chatterer himself is one of the greatest thieves in the Green Forest .
So he sat on the mossy old log and laughed and laughed and laughed .
Finally Striped Chipmunk wiped the tears from his eyes and jumped up .
`` My , my , this will never do ! ''
said he .
`` Idle hands and idle feet Never filled a storehouse yet ; But instead , so I 've heard say , Into mischief surely get . ''
`` Here it is almost Thanksgiving and -- '' Striped Chipmunk stopped and scratched his head , while a funny little pleased look crept into his face .
`` I wonder if Happy Jack and Chatterer would come to a Thanksgiving dinner , '' he muttered .
`` I believe I 'll ask them just for fun . ''
Then Striped Chipmunk hurried home full of his new idea and chuckled as he planned his Thanksgiving dinner .
Of course he could n't have it at his own house .
That would n't do at all .
In the first place , the doorway would be altogether too small for Happy Jack .
Anyway , his home was a secret , his very own secret , and he did n't propose to let Happy Jack and Chatterer know where it was , even for a Thanksgiving dinner .
Then he thought of the big , smooth , mossy log he had been sitting on that very morning .
`` The very place ! ''
cried Striped Chipmunk , and scurried away to find Happy Jack Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel to invite them to his Thanksgiving dinner .
CHAPTER XI STRIPED CHIPMUNK 'S THANKSGIVING DINNER There 's nothing quite so sweet in life As making up and ending strife .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk jumped out of bed very early Thanksgiving morning .
It was going to be a very busy day .
He had invited Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Chatterer the Red Squirrel , to eat Thanksgiving dinner with him , and each had promised to be there .
Striped Chipmunk chuckled as he thought how neither of his guests knew that the other was to be there .
He washed his face and hands , brushed his hair , and ate his breakfast .
Then he scurried over to his splendid new storehouse , which no one knew of but himself , and stuffed the pockets in his cheeks with good things to eat .
When he could n't stuff another thing in , he scurried over to the nice , mossy log on the edge of the Green Forest , and there he emptied his pockets , for that was to be his dining table .
Back and forth , back and forth between his secret storehouse and the smooth , mossy log hurried Striped Chipmunk .
He knew that Happy Jack and the Chatterer have great appetites , and he wanted to be sure that there was plenty of good things to eat .
And as he scurried along , he sang a little song .
`` Thanksgiving comes but once a year , But when it comes it brings good cheer .
For in my storehouse on this day Are piles of good things hid away .
Each day I 've worked from early morn To gather acorns , nuts , and corn , Till now I 've plenty and to spare Without a worry or a care .
So light of heart the whole day long , I 'll sing a glad Thanksgiving song . ''
Promptly at the dinner hour Happy Jack appeared coming from one direction , and Chatterer the Red Squirrel coming from another direction .
They did n't see each other until just as they reached Striped Chipmunk 's smooth , mossy log .
Then they stopped and scowled .
Striped Chipmunk pretended not to notice anything wrong and bustled about , talking all the time as if his guests were the best of friends .
On the smooth , mossy log was a great pile of shining yellow corn .
There was another pile of plump ripe acorns , and three little piles of dainty looking brown seeds .
But the thing that Happy Jack could n't keep his eyes off was right in the middle .
It was a huge pile of big , fat hickory nuts .
Now who could remain ill-tempered and cross with such a lot of goodies spread before him ?
Certainly not Happy Jack or his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
They just had to smile in spite of themselves , and when Striped Chipmunk urged them to sit down and help themselves , they did .
In three minutes they were so busy eating that they had forgotten all about their quarrel and were laughing and chatting like the best of friends .
`` It 's quite a family party , is n't it ? ''
said Striped Chipmunk , for you know they are all cousins .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse happened along , and Striped Chipmunk insisted that he should join the party .
Later Sammy Jay came along , and nothing would excuse him from sharing in the feast , too .
When everybody had eaten and eaten until they could n't hold another thing , and it was time to think of going home , Striped Chipmunk insisted that Happy Jack and Chatterer should divide between them the big , fat hickory nuts that were left , and they did without once quarreling about it .
`` Thanksgiving comes but once a year , And when it comes it brings good cheer , '' said Striped Chipmunk to himself as he watched his guests depart .
CHAPTER XII HAPPY JACK DOES SOME THINKING To call another a thief does n't make him one .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack sat up in a chestnut tree , and his face was very sober .
The fact is , Happy Jack was doing some very hard thinking .
This is so very unusual for him that Sammy Jay stopped to ask if he was sick .
You see he is naturally a happy-go-lucky little scamp , and that is one reason that he is called Happy Jack .
But this morning he was thinking and thinking hard , so hard , in fact , that he almost lost his temper when Sammy Jay interrupted his thoughts with such a foolish question .
What was he thinking about ?
Can you not guess ?
Why , he was thinking about those big , fat hickory nuts that Striped Chipmunk had had for his Thanksgiving dinner , and how Striped Chipmunk had given him some of them to bring home .
He was very sure that they were the very same nuts that he had watched grow big and fat in the top of the tall hickory tree and then had knocked down while chasing his cousin , Chatterer .
When they had reached the ground and found the nuts gone , Happy Jack had at once suspected that Striped Chipmunk had taken them , and now he felt sure about it .
But all at once things looked very different to Happy Jack , and the more he thought about how he had acted , the more ashamed of himself he grew .
`` There certainly must have been enough of those nuts for all of us , and if I had n't been so greedy we might all have had a share .
As it is , I 've got only those that Striped Chipmunk gave me , and Chatterer has only those that Striped Chipmunk gave him .
It must be that that sharp little cousin of mine with the striped coat has got the rest , and I guess he deserves them . ''
Then all of a sudden Happy Jack realized how Striped Chipmunk had fooled him into thinking that the storehouse of Chatterer was his storehouse , and Happy Jack began to laugh .
The more he thought of it , the harder he laughed .
`` The joke certainly is on me ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` The joke certainly is on me , and it served me right .
Hereafter I 'll mind my own business .
If I had spent half as much time looking for hickory nuts as I did looking for Striped Chipmunk 's storehouse , I would be ready for winter now , and Chatterer could n't call me a thief . ''
Then he laughed again as he thought how Striped Chipmunk must have enjoyed seeing him pulled out of Chatterer 's storehouse by the tail .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
asked Bobby Coon , who happened along just then .
`` I 've just learned a lesson , '' replied Happy Jack .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Bobby .
Happy Jack grinned as he answered : `` I 've found that greed will never , never pay .
It makes one cross and ugly , and it drives one 's friends away .
And being always selfish and always wanting more , One 's very apt to lose the things that one has had before . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
said Bobby Coon .
`` Have you just found that out ?
I learned that a long time ago . ''
CHAPTER XIII HAPPY JACK GETS A WARNING It matters not how smart you are , So be it you are heedless too .
It is n't what you know that counts So much as what it is to you .
Happy Jack .
A fat Gray Squirrel is very tempting to a number of people in the Green Forest , particularly in winter , when getting a living is hard work .
Almost every day Reddy and Granny Fox stole softly through that part of the Green Forest where Happy Jack Squirrel lived , hoping to surprise and catch him on the ground .
But they never did .
Roughleg the Hawk and Hooty the Owl wasted a great deal of time , sitting around near Happy Jack 's home , hoping to catch him when he was not watching , but they never did .
Happy Jack knew all about these big hungry neighbors , and he was always on the watch for them .
He knew their ways and just where they would be likely to hide .
He took the greatest care to look into every such hiding place near at hand before he ventured down out of the trees , and because these hungry neighbors are so big , he never had any trouble in seeing them if they happened to be around .
So Happy Jack did n't do much worrying about them .
The fact is , Happy Jack was n't afraid of them at all , for the simple reason that he knew they could n't follow him into his hollow tree .
Having nuts stored away , he would have been perfectly happy but for one thing .
Yes , Sir , there was only one thing to spoil Happy Jack 's complete happiness , and that was the fear that Shadow the Weasel might take it into his head to pay him a visit .
Shadow can go through a smaller hole than Happy Jack can , and so Happy Jack knew that while he was wholly safe from his other enemies , he was n't safe at all from Shadow the Weasel .
And this worried him .
Yes , Sir , it worried Happy Jack .
He had n't seen or heard of Shadow for a long time , but he had a feeling that he was likely to turn up almost any time , especially now that everything was covered with snow and ice , and food was scarce and hard to get .
He sometimes actually wished that he was n't as fat as he was .
Then he would be less tempting to his hungry neighbors .
But no good comes of worrying .
No , Sir , not a bit of good comes of worrying , and Happy Jack knows it .
`` All I can do is to watch out and not be careless , '' said he , and dropped the shell of a nut on the head of Reddy Fox , who happened to be passing under the tree in which Happy Jack was sitting .
Reddy looked up and showed his teeth angrily .
Happy Jack laughed and scampered away through the tree-tops to another part of the Green Forest where he had some very secret stores of nuts .
He was gone most of the day , and when he started back home he was in the best of spirits , for his stores had not been found by any one else .
He was in such good spirits that for once he quite forgot Shadow the Weasel .
He was just going to pop into his doorway without first looking inside , a very foolish thing to do , when he heard some one calling him .
He turned to see Tommy Tit the Chickadee hurrying towards him , and it was very clear that Tommy was greatly excited .
`` Hello , Tommy Tit !
What ails you ? ''
exclaimed Happy Jack .
`` Do n't go in there , Happy Jack ! ''
cried Tommy Tit .
`` Shadow the Weasel is in there waiting for you ! ''
Happy Jack turned quite pale .
`` Are you sure ? ''
he gasped .
Tommy Tit nodded as if he would nod his head off .
`` I saw him go in , and he has n't come out , for I 've kept watch , '' said he .
`` You better get away from here before he knows you are about . ''
That was good advice , but it was too late .
Even as Tommy Tit spoke , a sharp face with red , angry eyes was thrust out of Happy Jack 's doorway .
It was the face of Shadow the Weasel .
CHAPTER XIV .
HAPPY JACK 'S RUN FOR LIFE A coward he who runs away When he should stay and fight , But wise is he who knows when he Should run with all his might .
Happy Jack .
It is n't cowardly to run away when it is quite useless to stay and fight .
So it was n't so cowardly of Happy Jack Squirrel to turn tail and run the instant he caught sight of Shadow the Weasel .
No , Sir , it was n't cowardly at all , although it might have looked so to you had you been there to see , for Happy Jack is bigger than Shadow .
But when it comes to a fight , Happy Jack is no match at all for Shadow the Weasel , and he knows it .
Shadow is too quick for him , and though Happy Jack were ever so brave , he would have no chance at all in a fight with Shadow .
And so the very instant he saw the cruel face of Shadow with its fierce red eyes glaring at him from his own doorway , Happy Jack turned tail and ran .
Yes , Sir , that is just what he did , and it was the wisest thing he could have done .
He hoped with a mighty hope that Shadow would not follow him , but he hoped in vain .
Shadow had made up his mind to dine on Squirrel , and he did n't propose to see his dinner run away without trying to catch it .
So the instant Happy Jack started , Shadow started after him , stopping only long enough to snarl an ugly threat at Tommy Tit the Chickadee , because Tommy had warned Happy Jack that Shadow was waiting for him .
But Tommy did n't mind that threat .
Oh , my , no !
Tommy did n't mind it at all .
He can fly , and so he had no fear of Shadow the Weasel .
But he was terribly afraid for Happy Jack .
He knew , just as Happy Jack knew , that there was n't a single place where Happy Jack could hide into which Shadow could not follow him .
So Tommy flitted from tree to tree behind Happy Jack , hoping that in some way he might be able to help him .
From tree to tree raced Happy Jack , making desperately long leaps .
Shadow the Weasel followed , and though he ran swiftly , he did n't appear to be hurrying , and he took no chances on those long leaps .
If the leap was too long to take safely , Shadow simply ran back down the tree , across to the next one and up that .
It did n't worry him at all that Happy Jack was so far ahead that he was out of sight .
He knew that he could trust his nose to follow the scent of Happy Jack .
In fact , it rather pleased him to have Happy Jack race away in such fright , for in that way he would soon tire himself out .
And this is just what Happy Jack did do .
He ran and jumped and jumped and ran as fast as he could until he was so out of breath that he just had to stop for a rest .
But he could n't rest much .
He was too terribly frightened .
He shivered and shook while he got his breath , and never for a second did he take his eyes from his back trail .
Presently he saw a slim white form darting along the snow straight towards the tree in which he was resting .
Once more Happy Jack ran , and somehow he felt terribly helpless and hopeless .
He had to rest oftener now , and each rest was shorter than the one before , because , you know , Shadow was a less and less distance behind .
Poor Happy Jack !
He had tried every trick he knew , and not one of them had fooled Shadow the Weasel .
Now he was too tired to run much farther .
The last little bit of hope left Happy Jack 's heart .
He blinked his eyes very fast to keep back the tears , as he thought that this was probably the last time he would ever look at the beautiful Green Forest he loved so .
Then he gritted his teeth and made up his mind that anyway he would fight his best , even if it was hopeless .
It was just at that very minute that he heard the voice of Tommy Tit the Chickadee calling to him in great excitement , and somehow , he did n't know why , a wee bit of hope sprang up in his heart .
CHAPTER XV WHO SAVED HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL ?
Blessed he whose words of cheer Help put hope in place of fear .
Happy Jack .
It never has been fully decided among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows just who really did save Happy Jack Squirrel .
Some say that Tommy Tit the Chickadee deserves all the credit , and some say that -- but wait .
Let me tell you just what happened , and then perhaps you can decide for yourself who saved Happy Jack .
You see , it was this way : Happy Jack had run and run and run and tried every trick he knew to get away from Shadow the Weasel , but all in vain .
At last he was so out of breath and so tired that he felt that he could n't run any more .
He had just made up his mind that he would wait right where he was for Shadow and then put up the best fight he could , even if it was hopeless , when he heard Tommy Tit calling to him in great excitement .
-LSB- Illustration : HAPPY JACK TRIED EVERY TRICK HE KNEW TO GET AWAY FROM SHADOW THE WEASEL . -RSB-
`` Dee , dee , chickadee !
Come here quick , Happy Jack !
Come here quick ! ''
called Tommy Tit .
A wee bit of hope sprang up in Happy Jack 's heart .
He could n't imagine what possible help Tommy Tit could be , but he would go see .
So taking a long breath he started on as fast as he could in the direction of Tommy 's voice .
He could n't run very fast , because , you know , he was so tired , but he did the best he could .
Presently he saw Tommy just ahead of him flying about in great excitement .
`` Dee , dee , dee , there he is !
Go to him !
Go to him , Happy Jack !
Hurry !
Hurry !
Dee , dee , dee , oh , do hurry ! ''
cried Tommy Tit .
For just a second Happy Jack did n't know what he meant .
Then he saw Farmer Brown 's boy watching Tommy Tit as if he did n't know what to make of the little fellow 's excitement .
`` Go to him !
Go to him ! ''
called Tommy .
`` He wo n't hurt you , and he wo n't let Shadow the Weasel hurt you !
See me !
See me !
Dee , dee , see me ! ''
And with that Tommy Tit flew right down on Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand , for you know he and Farmer Brown 's boy are great friends .
Happy Jack hesitated .
He knew that Farmer Brown 's boy had tried to make friends with him , and every day since the ice and snow had come had put out nuts and corn for him , but he could n't quite forget the old fear of him .
He could n't quite trust him .
So now he hesitated .
Then he looked back .
Shadow the Weasel was only a few jumps behind him , and his little eyes glowed red and savage .
Farmer Brown 's boy might not hurt him , but Shadow certainly would .
Shadow would kill him .
Happy Jack made up his mind , and with a little gasp raced madly across the snow straight to Farmer Brown 's boy and ran right up to his shoulder .
Shadow the Weasel had been so intent on catching Happy Jack that he had n't noticed Farmer Brown 's boy at all .
Now he saw him for the first time and stopped short , snarling and spitting .
Whatever else you may say of Shadow the Weasel , he is no coward .
For a minute it looked as if he really meant to follow Happy Jack and get him in spite of Farmer Brown 's boy , and Happy Jack trembled as he looked down into those angry little red eyes .
But Shadow knows when he is well off , and now he knew better than to come a step nearer .
So he snarled and spit , and then , as Farmer Brown 's boy took a step forward , leaped to one side and disappeared in the old stone wall .
Very gently and softly Farmer Brown 's boy talked to Happy Jack as he took him to the nearest tree .
Then , when Happy Jack was safely up in the tree , he went over to the stone wall and tried to drive Shadow the Weasel out .
He pulled over the stones until at last Shadow jumped out , and then Farmer Brown 's boy chased him clear into the Green Forest .
`` Dee , dee , dee , what did I tell you ? ''
cried Tommy Tit happily , as he flew over to where Happy Jack was sitting .
Now who really saved Happy Jack -- Tommy Tit or Farmer Brown 's boy ?
CHAPTER XVI HAPPY JACK MISSES FARMER BROWN 'S BOY One and one are always two , And two and two are four .
And just as true it is you 'll find That love and love make more .
Happy Jack .
Go ask Happy Jack Squirrel .
He knows .
He knows because he has proved it .
It began when Farmer Brown 's boy saved him from Shadow the Weasel .
Perhaps I should say when Farmer Brown 's boy and Tommy Tit saved him , for if it had n't been for Tommy , it never would have entered Happy Jack 's head to run to Farmer Brown 's boy .
After that , of course , Happy Jack and Farmer Brown 's boy became great friends .
Farmer Brown 's boy came over to the Green Forest every day to see Happy Jack , and always he had the most delicious nuts in his pockets .
At first Happy Jack had been a wee bit shy .
He could n't quite get over that old fear he had had so long .
Then he would remember how Farmer Brown 's boy had saved him , and that would make him ashamed , and he would walk right up and take the nuts .
Farmer Brown 's boy would talk to him in the nicest way and tell him that he loved him , and that there was n't the least thing in the world to be afraid of .
Pretty soon Happy Jack began to love Farmer Brown 's boy a little .
He could n't help it .
He just had to love any one who was so kind and gentle to him .
Now as soon as he began to love a little , and felt sure in his own heart that Farmer Brown 's boy loved him a little , he found that love and love make more love , and it was n't any time at all before he had become very fond of Farmer Brown 's boy , so fond of him that he was almost jealous of Tommy Tit , who had been a friend of Farmer Brown 's boy for a long time .
It got so that Happy Jack looked forward each day to the visit of Farmer Brown 's boy , and as soon as he heard his whistle , he would hasten to meet him .
Some folks were unkind enough to say that it was just because of the nuts and corn he was sure to find in Farmer Brown 's boy 's pockets , but that was n't so at all .
At last there came a day when he missed that cheery whistle .
He waited and waited .
At last he went clear to the edge of the Green Forest , but there was no whistle and no sign of Farmer Brown 's boy .
It was the same way the next day and the next .
Happy Jack forgot to frisk about the way he usually does .
He lost his appetite .
He just sat around and moped .
When Tommy Tit the Chickadee came to call , as he did every day , Happy Jack found that Tommy was anxious too .
Tommy had been up to Farmer Brown 's dooryard several times , and he had n't seen anything of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` I think he must have gone away , '' said Tommy .
`` He would have come down here first and said good-by , '' replied Happy Jack .
`` You -- you do n't suppose something has happened to him , do you ? ''
asked Tommy .
`` I do n't know .
I do n't know what to think , '' replied Happy Jack , soberly .
`` Do you know , Tommy , I 've grown very fond of Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
`` Of course .
Dee , dee , dee , of course .
Everybody who really knows him is fond of him .
I 've said all along that he is the best friend we 've got , but no one seemed to believe me .
I 'm glad you 've found it out for yourself .
I tell you what , I 'll go up to his house and have another look around . ''
And without waiting for a reply , Tommy was off as fast as his little wings could take him .
`` I hope , I do hope , that nothing has happened to him , '' mumbled Happy Jack , as he pretended to hunt for buried nuts while he waited for Tommy Tit to come back , and by `` him '' he meant Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER XVII TOMMY TIT BRINGS NEWS No one knows too much , but many know too little .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack very plainly was not happy .
His name was the only happy thing about him .
He fussed about on the edge of the Green Forest .
He just could n't keep still .
When he thought anybody was looking , he pretended to hunt for some of the nuts he had buried in the fall , and dug holes down through the snow .
But as soon as he thought that no one was watching , he would scamper up a tree where he could look over to Farmer Brown 's house and look and look .
It was very clear that Happy Jack was watching for some one and that he was anxious , very anxious , indeed .
It was getting late in the afternoon , and soon the Black Shadows would begin to creep out from the Purple Hills , behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun would go to bed .
It would be bedtime for Happy Jack then , for you know he goes to bed very early , just as soon as it begins to get dark .
The later it got , the more anxious and uneasy Happy Jack grew .
He had just made up his mind that in a few minutes he would have to give up and go to bed when there was a flit of tiny wings , and Tommy Tit the Chickadee dropped into the tree beside him .
`` Did you find out anything ? ''
asked Happy Jack eagerly , before Tommy had a chance to say a word .
-LSB- Illustration : `` DID YOU FIND OUT ANYTHING ? ''
ASKED HAPPY JACK EAGERLY . -RSB-
Tommy nodded .
`` He 's there ! ''
he panted , for he was quite out of breath from hurrying so .
`` Where ? ''
Happy Jack fairly shouted the question .
`` Over there in the house , '' replied Tommy Tit .
`` Then he has n't gone away !
It 's just as I said , he has n't gone away ! ''
cried Happy Jack , and he was so relieved that he jumped up and down and as a result nearly tumbled out of the tree .
`` No , '' replied Tommy , `` he has n't gone away , but I think there is something the matter with him . ''
Happy Jack grew very sober .
`` What makes you think so ? ''
he demanded .
`` If you 'll give me time to get my breath , I 'll tell you all about it , '' retorted Tommy Tit .
`` All right , only please hurry , '' replied Happy Jack , and tried to look patient even if he was n't .
Tommy Tit smoothed out some rumpled feathers and was most provokingly slow about it .
`` When I left here , '' he began at last , `` I flew straight up to Farmer Brown 's house , as I said I would .
I flew all around it , but all I saw was that horrid Black Pussy on the back doorsteps , and she looked at me so hungrily that she made me dreadfully uncomfortable .
I do n't see what Farmer Brown keeps her about for , anyway . ''
`` Never mind her ; go on ! ''
interrupted Happy Jack .
`` Then I flew all around the barn , but I did n't see any one there but that ugly little upstart , Bully the English Sparrow , and he wanted to pick a fight with me right away . ''
Tommy looked very indignant .
`` Never mind him , go on ! ''
cried Happy Jack impatiently .
`` After that I flew back to the big maple tree close by the house , '' continued Tommy .
`` You know Farmer Brown 's boy has kept a piece of suet tied in that tree all winter for me .
I was hungry , and I thought I would get a bite to eat , but there was n't any suet there .
That pig of a Sammy Jay had managed to get it untied and had carried it all away .
Of course that made me angry , and twice as hungry as before .
I was trying to make up my mind what to do next when I happened to look over on the window sill , and what do you think I saw there ? ''
`` What ? ''
demanded Happy Jack eagerly .
`` A lot of cracked hickory nuts ! ''
declared Tommy .
`` I just knew that they were meant for me , and when I was sure that the way was clear , I flew over there .
They tasted so good that I almost forgot about Farmer Brown 's boy , when I just happened to look in the window .
You know those windows are made of some queer stuff that looks like ice and is n't , and that you can see right through . ''
Happy Jack did n't know , for he never had been near enough to see , but he nodded , and Tommy Tit went on .
`` There were many queer things inside , and I was wondering what they could be when all of a sudden I saw him .
He was lying down , and there was something the matter with him .
I tapped on the window to him and then I hurried back here . ''
CHAPTER XVIII HAPPY JACK DECIDES TO MAKE A CALL You 'll find when all is said and done Two heads are better far than one .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel had n't slept very well .
He had had bad dreams .
Ever so many times in the night he had waked up , a very unusual thing for Happy Jack .
The fact is , he had something on his mind .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack had something on his mind , and that something was Farmer Brown 's boy .
He often had had Farmer Brown 's boy on his mind before , but in a very different way .
Then it had been in the days when Farmer Brown 's boy hunted through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows with his terrible gun .
Then everybody had Farmer Brown 's boy on their minds most of the time .
Happy Jack had hated him then , hated him because he had feared him .
You know fear almost always leads to hate .
But now it was different .
Farmer Brown 's boy had put away his terrible gun .
Happy Jack no longer feared him .
Love had taken the place of hate in his heart , for had not Farmer Brown 's boy saved him from Shadow the Weasel , and brought him nuts and corn when food was scarce ?
And now Tommy Tit had brought word that some thing was the matter with Farmer Brown 's boy .
It was this that was on Happy Jack 's mind and had given him such a bad night .
As soon as it was daylight , Happy Jack scrambled out of bed to look for Tommy Tit .
He did n't have long to wait , for Tommy is quite as early a riser as Happy Jack .
`` Dee , dee , chickadee !
I hope you feel as well as me ! ''
sang Tommy merrily , as he flitted over to where Happy Jack was looking for his breakfast .
The very sound of Tommy 's voice made Happy Jack feel better .
One must feel very badly indeed not to be a little more cheerful when Tommy Tit is about .
The fact is , Tommy Tit packs about so much good cheer in that small person of his , that no one can be downhearted when he is about .
`` Hello , Tommy , '' said Happy Jack .
`` If I could make other people feel as good as you do , do you know what I would do ? ''
`` What ? ''
asked Tommy .
`` I 'd go straight up to Farmer Brown 's house and try to cheer up Farmer Brown 's boy , '' replied Happy Jack .
`` That 's the very thing I have in mind , '' chuckled Tommy .
`` I 've come over here to see if you wo n't come along with me .
I 've been up to his house so often that he wo n't think half so much of a visit from me as he will from you .
Will you do it ? ''
Happy Jack looked a little startled .
You see , he never had been over to Farmer Brown 's house , and somehow he could n't get over the idea that it would be a very dangerous thing to do .
`` I -- I -- do you really suppose I could ? ''
he asked .
`` I 'm sure of it , '' replied Tommy Tit .
`` There 's no one to be afraid of but Black Pussy and Bowser the Hound , and it 's easy enough to keep out of their way .
You can hide in the old stone wall until the way is clear and then run across to the big maple tree close to the house .
Then you can look right in and see Farmer Brown 's boy , and he can look out and see you .
Will you do it ? ''
Happy Jack thought very hard for a few minutes .
Then he made up his mind .
`` I 'll do it ! ''
said he in a very decided tone of voice .
`` Let 's start right away . ''
`` Good for you !
Dee , dee , good for you ! ''
cried Tommy Tit , and started to lead the way .
CHAPTER XIX TOMMY TIT AND HAPPY JACK PAY A VISIT As grows the mighty elm tree , From just a tiny seed , So often great things happen From just a kindly deed .
Happy Jack .
Great things were happening to Happy Jack Squirrel .
He was actually on his way to Farmer Brown 's house , and he had a feeling that other things were likely to happen when he got there .
Now you may not think that it was anything very great that Happy Jack should be on his way to Farmer Brown 's house .
Very likely you are saying , `` Pooh !
that 's nothing ! ''
This may be true , and then again it may not .
Suppose you do a little supposing .
Suppose you had all your life been terribly afraid of a great giant fifty times bigger than you .
Suppose that great giant had stopped hunting you and by little deeds of kindness had at last won your love .
Suppose you learned that something was the matter with him , and you made up your mind to visit him at his great castle where there were other great giants whom you did not know .
Would n't you think that great things were happening to you ?
Well , that is exactly the way it was with Happy Jack Squirrel , as he and Tommy Tit the Chickadee started to go over to Farmer Brown 's house to look for Farmer Brown 's boy .
Tommy Tit had been there often , so he did n't think anything about it , but Happy Jack never had been there , and if the truth were known , his heart was going pitapat , pitapat , with excitement and perhaps just a little fear .
Through the Old Orchard they went , Tommy Tit flitting ahead and keeping a sharp watch for danger .
When they reached the old stone wall on the edge of Farmer Brown 's dooryard , Tommy told Happy Jack to hide there while he went to see if the way was clear .
He was back in a few minutes .
`` Dee , dee , everything is all right , '' said he .
`` Bowser the Hound is eating ; his breakfast out back where he ca n't see you at all , and Black Pussy is nowhere about .
All you have to do is to follow me over to that big tree close to the house , and I will show you where Farmer Brown 's boy is . ''
`` I -- I 'm afraid , '' confessed Happy Jack .
`` Pooh !
There 's nothing to be afraid of , '' asserted Tommy Tit in the most positive way .
`` Do n't be a coward .
Remember how Farmer Brown 's boy saved you from Shadow the Weasel .
Come on !
Dee , dee , dee , come on ! ''
With that Tommy flew across to the tree close by the house .
Happy Jack scrambled up on the old stone wall and looked this way and looked that way .
He could n't see a thing to be afraid of .
He jumped down and ran a few steps .
Then his heart failed , and he scampered back to the old stone wall in a panic .
After a few minutes he tried again , and once more a foolish fear sent him back .
The third time he gritted his teeth , said to himself over and over , `` I will !
I will !
I will ! ''
and ran with all his might .
In no time at all he was across the dooryard and up in the big tree , his heart pounding with excitement .
`` Dee , dee , dee , '' called Tommy Tit .
Happy Jack looked over to the house , and there sat Tommy on a window-sill , helping himself to the most delicious-looking cracked nuts .
The sight of them made Happy Jack 's mouth water .
A long branch hung down over the window and almost touched the sill .
Happy Jack ventured half way and stopped .
Somehow it seemed very dangerous to go so close to that window .
`` Come on !
Come on !
What are you afraid of ? ''
called Tommy .
Something like shame that such a little fellow as Tommy Tit should dare to go where he did not , crept into Happy Jack 's heart .
With a quick little run and jump he was on the sill , and a second later he was staring in at all the strange things inside .
At first he did n't see anything of Farmer Brown 's boy , but in a few minutes he made him out .
He was lying down all covered over except his head .
There was something the matter with him .
Happy Jack did n't need to be told that , and a great pity filled his heart .
He wanted to do something for Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER XX WHAT WAS THE MATTER WITH FARMER BROWN 'S BOY ?
He who climbs the highest has the farthest to fall , but often it is worth the risk .
Happy Jack .
All the way home from his visit to Farmer Brown 's house Happy Jack Squirrel puzzled and wondered over what he had seen .
He had peeped in at a window and seen Farmer Brown 's boy lying all covered up , with only his head showing .
Happy Jack could n't see very well , but somehow that head did n't look just right .
One thing was sure , and that was there was something wrong with Farmer Brown 's boy .
He never would have been lying still like that if there had n't been .
Happy Jack had been so troubled by what he saw that he had hardly tasted the nuts he had found on the window-sill .
`` I am going to make him another call to-morrow , '' said he when he and Tommy Tit were once more back in the Green Forest .
`` Of course , '' replied Tommy .
`` I expected you would .
I will be around for you at the same time .
You 're not afraid any more to go up there , are you ? ''
`` No-o , '' replied Happy Jack , slowly .
The truth is , he was still a little afraid .
It seemed to him a terribly venturesome thing to cross that open dooryard , but having done it once in safety , he knew that it would be easier the next time .
It was .
The next morning he and Tommy Tit went just as before , and this time Happy Jack scampered across the dooryard the very first time he tried .
They found things just as they had been the day before .
They saw Farmer Brown 's boy , but he did n't see them .
Tommy Tit was just going to tap on the window to let him know they were there , when a door inside opened , and in walked Mrs. Brown .
It frightened them so that Tommy Tit flew away without tasting a single nut , and Happy Jack nearly fell as he scrambled back into the tree close by the window .
You see , they never had made her acquaintance , and having her walk in so suddenly frightened them terribly .
They did n't stop to think that there was nothing to fear because there was the window between .
Somehow they could n't understand that queer stuff that they could see through but which shut them out .
If they had seen Mrs. Brown go to the window and put more cracked nuts on the sill , perhaps they would have been less afraid .
But they had been too badly frightened to look back , and so they did n't know anything about that .
The next morning Tommy Tit was on hand as usual , but he found Happy Jack a little doubtful about paying another visit .
He was n't wholly over his scare of the day before .
It took him some time to make up his mind to go , but finally he did .
This time when they reached the tree close by the house , they found a great surprise awaiting them .
Farmer Brown 's boy was sitting just inside the window , looking out .
At least , they thought it was Farmer Brown 's boy , but when they got a little nearer , they grew doubtful .
It looked like Farmer Brown 's boy , and yet it did n't .
His cheeks stuck way out just as Striped Chipmunk 's do when he has them stuffed full of corn or nuts .
Happy Jack stared at him very hard .
`` My goodness , I did n't know he carried his food that way ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` I should think it would be dreadfully uncomfortable . ''
If Farmer Brown 's boy could have heard that , he certainly would have tried to laugh , and if he had -- well , it was bad enough when he tried to smile at the sight of Tommy Tit and Happy Jack .
He did n't smile at all but made up an awful face instead and clapped both hands to his cheeks .
Happy Jack and Tommy Tit did n't know what to make of it , and it was some time before they made up their minds that it really was Farmer Brown 's boy , and that they had nothing to fear .
But when they finally ventured on to the sill and , as they helped themselves to nuts , saw the smile in his eyes , though he did not smile with his mouth at all , they knew that it was he , and that he was glad that they had called .
Then they were glad too .
But what was the matter with Farmer Brown 's boy ?
Happy Jack puzzled over it all the rest of the day , and then gave it up .
CHAPTER XXI HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL GROWS VERY BOLD When you find a friend in trouble Pass along a word of cheer .
Often it is very helpful Just to feel a friend is near .
Happy Jack .
Every day Happy Jack visited the window sill of Farmer Brown 's house to call on Farmer Brown 's boy , who was always waiting for him just inside the window .
In fact Happy Jack had got into the habit of getting his breakfast there , for always there were fat , delicious nuts on the window-sill , and it was much easier and more comfortable to breakfast there than to hunt up his own hidden supplies and perhaps have to dig down through the snow to get them .
Most people are just like Happy Jack -- they do the easiest thing .
Each day Farmer Brown 's boy looked more and more like himself .
His cheeks stuck out less and less , and finally did not stick out at all .
And now he smiled at Happy Jack with his mouth as well as with his eyes .
You know when his cheeks had stuck out so , he could n't smile at all except with his eyes .
Happy Jack did n't know what had been the matter with Farmer Brown 's boy , but whatever it was , he was better now , and that made Happy Jack feel better .
One morning he got a surprise .
When he ran out along the branch of the tree that led to the window-sill he suddenly discovered something wrong .
There were no nuts on the sill !
More than this there was something very suspicious looking about the window .
It did n't look just right .
The truth is it was partly open , but Happy Jack did n't understand this , not then , anyway .
He stopped short and scolded , a way he has when things do n't suit him .
Farmer Brown 's boy came to the window and called to him .
Then he thrust a hand out , and in it were some of the fattest nuts Happy Jack ever had seen .
His mouth watered right away .
There might be something wrong with the window , but certainly the sill was all right .
It would do no harm to go that far .
So Happy Jack nimbly jumped across to the window-sill .
Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand with the fat nuts was still there , and Happy Jack lost no time in getting one .
Then he sat up on the sill to eat it .
My , but it was good !
It was just as good as it had looked .
Happy Jack 's eyes twinkled as he ate .
When he had finished that nut , he wanted another .
But now Farmer Brown 's boy had drawn his hand inside the window .
He was still holding it out with the nuts in it , but to get them Happy Jack must go inside , and he could n't get it out of his head that that was a very dangerous thing to do .
What if that window should be closed while he was in there ?
Then he would be a prisoner .
So he sat up and begged .
He knew that Farmer Brown 's boy knew what he wanted .
But Farmer Brown 's boy kept his hand just where it was .
`` Come on , you little rascal , '' said he .
`` You ought to know me well enough by this time to know that I wo n't hurt you or let any harm come to you .
Hurry up , because I ca n't stand here all day .
You see , I 've just got over the mumps , and if I should catch cold I might be sick again .
Come along now , and show how brave you are . ''
Of course Happy Jack could n't understand what he said .
If he could have , he might have guessed that it was the mumps that had made Farmer Brown 's boy look so like Striped Chipmunk when he has his cheeks stuffed with nuts .
But if he could n't understand what Farmer Brown 's boy said , he had no difficulty in understanding that if he wanted those nuts he would have to go after them .
So at last he screwed up his courage and put his head inside .
Nothing happened , so he went wholly in and sat on the inside sill .
Then by reaching out as far as he could without tumbling off , he managed to get one of those nuts , and as soon as he had it , he dodged outside to eat it .
Farmer Brown 's boy laughed , and putting the rest of the nuts outside , he closed the window .
Happy Jack ate his fill and then scampered back to the Green Forest .
He felt all puffed up with pride .
He felt that he had been very , very bold , and he was anxious to tell Tommy Tit the Chickadee , who had not been with him that morning , how bold he had been .
`` Pooh , that 's nothing ! ''
replied Tommy , when he had heard about it .
`` I 've done that often . ''
CHAPTER XXII HAPPY JACK DARES TOMMY TIT A wise philosopher is he Who takes things as they chance to be , And in them sees that which is best While trying to forget the rest .
Happy Jack .
Somehow Happy Jack 's day had been spoiled .
He knew that he had no business to allow it to be spoiled , but it was , just the same .
You see , he had been all puffed up with pride because he thought himself a very bold fellow because he had really been inside Farmer Brown 's house .
He could n't help feeling quite puffed up about it .
But when he told Tommy Tit the Chickadee about it , Tommy had said , `` Pooh !
I 've done that often . ''
That was what had spoiled the day for Happy Jack .
He knew that if Tommy Tit said that he had done a thing , he had , for Tommy always tells the truth and nothing but the truth .
So Happy Jack had n't been so dreadfully bold , after all , and had nothing to brag about .
It made him feel quite put out .
He actually tried to make himself feel that it was all the fault of Tommy Tit , and that he wanted to get even with him .
He thought about it all the rest of the day , and just before he fell asleep that night an idea came to him .
`` I know what I 'll do !
I 'll dare Tommy to go as far inside Farmer Brown 's house as I do ! ''
he exclaimed , and went to sleep to dream that he was the boldest , bravest squirrel that ever lived .
The next morning when he reached the tree close by Farmer Brown 's house , he found Tommy Tit already there , flitting about impatiently and calling his loudest , which was n't very loud , for you know Tommy is a very little fellow , and his voice is not very loud .
But he was doing his best to call Farmer Brown 's boy .
You see , there was n't a single nut on the window-sill , and the window was closed .
Pretty soon Farmer Brown 's boy came to the window and opened it .
But he did n't put out any nuts .
Tommy Tit at once flew over to the sill , and to show that he was just as bold , Happy Jack followed .
Looking inside , they saw Farmer Brown 's boy standing in the middle of the room , holding out a dish of nuts and smiling at them .
This was the chance Happy Jack wanted to try the plan he had thought of the night before .
`` I dare you to go way in there and get a nut , '' said he to Tommy Tit .
He hoped that Tommy would be afraid .
But Tommy was n't anything of the kind .
`` Dee , dee , dee !
Come on ! ''
he cried , and flitted over and helped himself to a cracked nut and was back with it before Happy Jack could make up his mind to jump down inside .
Of course now that he had dared Tommy Tit , and Tommy had taken the dare , he just had to do it too .
It looked a long way in to where Farmer Brown 's boy was standing .
Twice he started and turned back .
Then he heard Tommy Tit chuckle .
That was too much .
He would n't be laughed at .
He just would n't .
He scampered across , grabbed a nut , and rushed back to the window-sill , where he ate the nut .
It was easier to go after the second nut , and when he went for the third , he had made up his mind that it was perfectly safe in there , and so he sat up on a chair and ate it .
Presently he felt quite at home , and when he had eaten all the nuts he wanted , he ran all around the room , examining all the strange things there .
This was a little more than Tommy Tit could make up his mind to do .
He was n't afraid to fly in for a nut and then fly out again , but he could n't feel easy inside a house like that .
Of course , this made Happy Jack feel good all over .
You see , he felt that now he really did have something to boast about .
No one else in all the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows could say that they had been all over Farmer Brown 's boy 's room as he had .
Happy Jack swelled himself out at the thought .
Now everybody would say , `` What a bold fellow ! ''
CHAPTER XXIII SAMMY JAY IS QUITE UPSET I know of nothing sweeter than Success to Squirrel or to man .
Happy Jack .
Very few people can be all puffed up with pride without showing it .
Happy Jack Squirrel could n't .
Just to have looked at him you would have known that he was feeling very , very good about something .
When he thought no one was looking , he would actually strut .
And it was all because he considered himself a very bold fellow .
That was a new feeling for Happy Jack .
He knew that all his neighbors considered him rather timid , and many a time he had envied , actually envied Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox and Unc ' Billy Possum and even Sammy Jay because they did such bold things and had dared to visit Farmer Brown 's dooryard and henhouse in spite of Bowser the Hound .
But now he felt that he dared do a thing that not one of them dared do .
He dared go right into Farmer Brown 's house and make himself quite at home in the room of Farmer Brown 's boy .
He felt that he was a tremendously brave fellow .
You see , he quite forgot one thing .
He forgot that he had found out that love destroys fear , and that though it might look to others like a very bold thing to walk right into Farmer Brown 's house , it really was n't bold at all , because all the time he knew that no harm would come to him .
It is never brave to do a thing that you are not afraid to do .
It had been brave of him to go in at that open window the first time , because then he had been afraid , but now he was n't afraid , and so it was no longer either brave or bold of him .
Tommy Tit the Chickadee knew all this , and he used to chuckle to himself as he saw how proud of himself Happy Jack was , but he said nothing to any one about it .
Of course , it was n't long before others began to notice Happy Jack 's pride .
One of the first was Sammy Jay .
There is very little that escapes Sammy Jay 's sharp eyes .
Silently stealing through the Green Forest early one morning , he surprised Happy Jack strutting .
`` Huh , '' said he , `` what are you feeling so big about ? ''
Like a flash the thought came to Happy Jack that here was a chance to show what a bold fellow he had become .
`` Hello , Sammy ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Are you feeling very brave this morning ? ''
`` Me feeling brave ?
What are you talking about ?
If I was as timid as you are , I would n't ever talk about bravery to other people .
If there is anything you dare to do that I do n't , I 've never heard of it , '' retorted Sammy Jay .
`` Come on ! ''
cried Happy Jack .
`` I 'm going to get my breakfast , and I dare you to follow me ! ''
Sammy Jay actually laughed right out .
`` Go ahead .
Wherever you go , I 'll go , '' he declared .
Happy Jack started right away for Farmer Brown 's house , and Sammy followed .
Through the Old Orchard , across the dooryard and into the big maple tree Happy Jack led the way , and Sammy followed , all the time wondering what was up .
He had been there many times .
In fact , he had had many a good meal of suet there during the cold weather , for Farmer Brown 's boy had kept a big piece tied to a branch of the maple tree for those who were hungry .
Sammy was a little surprised when he saw Happy Jack jump over on to the window-sill .
Still , he had been on that window-sill more than once himself , when he had made sure that no one was near , and had helped himself to the cracked nuts he had found there .
`` Come on ! ''
called Happy Jack , his eyes twinkling .
Sammy Jay chuckled .
`` He thinks I do n't dare go over there , '' he thought .
`` Well , I 'll fool him . ''
With a hasty look to see that no danger was near , he spread his wings to follow Happy Jack on to the window-sill .
Happy Jack waited to make sure that he really was coming and then slipped in at the open window and scampered over to a table on the farther side of the room and helped himself from a dish of nuts there .
When Sammy saw Happy Jack disappear inside he gave a little gasp .
When he looked inside and saw Happy Jack making himself quite at home , he gasped again .
And when he saw a door open and Farmer Brown 's boy enter , and still Happy Jack did not run , he was too upset for words .
He did n't dare stay to see more , and for once in his life was quite speechless as he flew back to the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXIV A DREAM COMES TRUE What are all our dreams made up of That they often are so queer ?
Wishes , hopes , and fond desires All mixed up with foolish fears .
Happy Jack .
Which is worse , to have a very beautiful dream never come true , or to have a bad dream really come true ?
Happy Jack Squirrel says the latter is worse , much worse .
Dreams do come true once in a great while , you know .
One of Happy Jack 's did .
It came true , and it made a great difference in Happy Jack 's life .
You see , it was like this : Happy Jack had had so many things to think of that he had almost forgotten about Shadow the Weasel .
Happy Jack had n't seen or heard anything of him since Farmer Brown 's boy had chased him into the Green Forest and so saved Happy Jack 's life .
Since then life had been too full of pleasant things to think of anything so unpleasant as Shadow the Weasel .
But one night Happy Jack had a bad dream .
Yes , Sir , it was a very bad dream .
He dreamed that once more Shadow the Weasel was after him , and this time there was no Farmer Brown 's boy to run to for help .
Shadow was right at his heels and in one more jump would have him .
Happy Jack opened his mouth to scream , and -- awoke .
He was all ashake with fright .
It was a great relief to find that it was only a dream , but even then he could n't get over it right away .
He was glad that it was almost morning , and just as soon as it was light enough to see , he crept out .
It was too early to go over to Farmer Brown 's house ; Farmer Brown 's boy would n't be up yet .
So Happy Jack ran over to one of his favorite lookouts , a tall chestnut tree , and there , with his back against the trunk , high above the ground , he watched the Green Forest wake as the first Sunbeams stole through it .
But all the time he kept thinking of that dreadful dream .
A little spot of black moving against the white snow caught his sharp eyes .
What was it ?
He leaned forward and held his breath , as he tried to make sure .
Ah , now he could see !
Just ahead of that black thing was a long , slim fellow all in white , and that black spot was his tail .
If it had n't been for that , Happy Jack very likely would n't have seen him at all .
It was Shadow the Weasel !
He was running swiftly , first to one side and then to the other , with his nose to the snow .
He was hunting .
There was no doubt about that .
He was hunting for his breakfast .
Happy Jack 's eyes grew wide with fear .
Would Shadow find his tracks ?
It looked very much as if Shadow was heading for Happy Jack 's house , and Happy Jack was glad , very glad , that that bad dream had waked him and made him so uneasy that he had come out .
Otherwise he might have been caught right in his own bed .
Shadow was almost at Happy Jack 's house when he stopped abruptly with his nose to the snow and sniffed eagerly .
Then he turned , and with his nose to the snow , started straight toward the tree where Happy Jack was .
Happy Jack waited to see no more .
He knew now that Shadow had found his trail and that it was to be a case of run for his life .
`` My dream has come true ! ''
he sobbed as he ran .
`` My dream has come true , and I do n't know what to do ! ''
But all the time he kept on running as fast as ever he could , which really was the only thing to do .
CHAPTER XXV HAPPY JACK HAS A HAPPY THOUGHT Who runs when danger comes his way Will live to run some other day .
Happy Jack .
Frightened and breathless , running with all his might from Shadow the Weasel , Happy Jack Squirrel was in despair .
He did n't know what to do or where to go .
The last time he had run from Shadow he had run to Farmer Brown 's boy , who had just happened to be near , and Farmer Brown 's boy had chased Shadow the Weasel away .
But now it was too early in the morning for him to expect to meet Farmer Brown 's boy .
In fact , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had hardly kicked his bedclothes off yet , and Happy Jack was very sure that Farmer Brown 's boy was still asleep .
Now most of us are creatures of habit .
We do the thing that we have been in the habit of doing , and do it without thinking anything about it .
That is why good habits are such a blessing .
Happy Jack Squirrel is just like the rest of us .
He has habits , both good and bad .
Of late , he had been in the habit of getting his breakfast at Farmer Brown 's house every morning , so now when he began to run from Shadow the Weasel he just naturally ran in the direction of Farmer Brown 's house from force of habit .
In fact , he was halfway there before he realized in which direction he was running .
Right then a thought came to him .
It gave him a wee bit of hope , and seemed to help him run just a little faster .
If the window of Farmer Brown 's boy 's room was open , he would run in there , and perhaps Shadow the Weasel would n't dare follow !
How he did hope that that window would be open !
He knew that it was his only chance .
He was n't quite sure that it really was a chance , for Shadow was such a bold fellow that he might not be afraid to follow him right in , but it was worth trying .
Along the stone wall beside the Old Orchard raced Happy Jack to the dooryard of Farmer Brown , and after him ran Shadow the Weasel , and Shadow looked as if he was enjoying himself .
No doubt he was .
He knew just as well as Happy Jack did that there was small chance of meeting Farmer Brown 's boy so early in the morning , so he felt very sure how that chase was going to end , and that when it did end he would breakfast on Squirrel .
By the time Happy Jack reached the dooryard , Shadow was only a few jumps behind him , and Happy Jack was pretty well out of breath .
He did n't stop to look to see if the way was clear .
There was n't time for that .
Besides , there could be no greater danger in front than was almost at his heels , and so , without looking one way or another , he scampered across the dooryard and up the big maple tree close to the house .
Shadow the Weasel was surprised .
He had not dreamed that Happy Jack would come over here .
But Shadow is a bold fellow , and it made little difference to him where Happy Jack went .
At least , that is what he thought .
So he followed Happy Jack across the dooryard and up the maple tree .
He took his time about it , for he knew by the way Happy Jack had run that he was pretty nearly at the end of his strength .
`` He never 'll get out of this tree , '' thought Shadow , as he started to climb it .
He fully expected to find Happy Jack huddled in a miserable little heap somewhere near the top .
Just imagine how surprised he was when he discovered that Happy Jack was n't to be seen .
He rubbed his angry little red eyes , and they grew angrier and redder than before .
`` Must be a hollow up here somewhere , '' he muttered .
`` I 'll just follow the scent of his feet , and that will lead me to him . ''
But when that scent led him out on a branch the tip of which brushed against Farmer Brown 's house Shadow got another surprise .
There was no sign of Happy Jack .
He could n't have reached the roof .
There was no place he could have gone unless -- .
Shadow stared across at a window open about two inches .
`` He could n't have ! ''
muttered Shadow .
`` He would n't dare .
He could n't have ! ''
But Happy Jack had .
He had gone inside that window .
CHAPTER XXVI FARMER BROWN 'S BOY WAKES WITH A START Never think another crazy just because it happens you Never 've heard of just the thing that they have started out to do .
Happy Jack .
Is n't it queer how hard it seems to be for some boys to go to bed at the proper time and how much harder it is for them to get up in the morning ?
It was just so with Farmer Brown 's boy .
I suppose he would n't have been a real boy if it had n't been so .
Of course , while he was sick with the mumps , he did n't have to get up , and while he was getting over the mumps his mother let him sleep as long as he wanted to in the morning .
That was very nice , but it made it all the harder to get up when he should after he was well again .
In summer it was n't so bad getting up early , but in winter -- well , that was the one thing about winter that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't like .
On this particular morning Farmer Brown had called him , and he had replied with a sleepy `` All right . ''
and then had rolled over and promptly gone to sleep again .
In two minutes he was dreaming just as if there were no such things as duties to be done .
For a while they were very pleasant dreams , very pleasant indeed .
But suddenly they changed .
A terrible monster was chasing him .
It had great red eyes as big as saucers , and sparks of fire flew from its mouth .
It had great claws as big as ice tongs , and it roared like a lion .
In his dream Farmer Brown 's boy was running with all his might .
Then he tripped and fell , and somehow he could n't get up again .
The terrible monster came nearer and nearer .
Farmer Brown 's boy tried to scream and could n't .
He was so frightened that he had lost his voice .
The terrible monster was right over him now and reached out one of his huge paws with the great claws .
One of them touched him on the cheek , and it burned like fire .
With a yell , a real , genuine yell , Farmer Brown 's boy awoke and sprang out of bed .
For a minute he could n't think where he was .
Then with a sigh of relief he realized that he was safe in his own snug little room with the first Jolly Little Sunbeam creeping in at the window to wish him good morning and chide him for being such a lazy fellow .
A thump and a scurry of little feet caught his attention , and he turned to see a Gray Squirrel running for the open window .
It jumped up on the sill , looked out , then jumped down inside again , and ran over to a corner of the room , where he crouched as if in great fear .
It was clear that he had been badly frightened by the yell of Farmer Brown 's boy , and that he was still more frightened by something he had seen when he looked out of the window .
A great light broke over Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Happy Jack , you little rascal , I believe you are the terrible monster that scared me so ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` I believe you were on my bed , and that it was your claws that I felt on my face .
But what ails you ?
You look frightened almost to death . ''
He went over to the window and looked out .
A movement in the big maple tree just outside caught his attention .
He saw a long , slim white form dart down the tree and disappear .
He knew who it was .
It was Shadow the Weasel .
`` So that pesky Weasel has been after you again , and you came to me for help , '' said he gently , as he coaxed Happy Jack to come to him .
`` This is the place to come to every time .
Poor little chap , you 're all of a tremble .
I guess I know how you feel when a Weasel is after you .
I guess you feel just as I felt when I dreamed that that monster was after me .
My , but you certainly did give me a scare when you touched my face ! ''
He gently stroked Happy Jack as he talked , and Happy Jack let him .
`` Breakfast ! ''
called a voice from downstairs .
`` Coming ! ''
replied Farmer Brown 's boy as he put Happy Jack on the table by a dish of nuts and began to scramble into his clothes .
CHAPTER XXVII HAPPY JACK IS AFRAID TO GO HOME Safety first is the best rule to insure a long life .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack did n't dare go home .
Can you think of anything more dreadful than to be afraid to go to your own home ?
Why , home is the dearest place in the world , and it should be the safest .
Just think how you would feel if you should be away from home , and then you should learn that it would n't be safe for you to go back there again , and you had no other place to go .
It often happens that way with the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It was that way with Happy Jack Squirrel now .
You see , Happy Jack knew that Shadow the Weasel is not one to give up easily .
Shadow has one very good trait , and that is persistence .
He is not easily discouraged .
When he sets out to do a thing , usually he does it .
If he starts to get a thing , usually he gets it .
No , he is n't easily discouraged .
Happy Jack knows this .
No one knows it better .
So Happy Jack did n't dare to go home .
He knew that any minute of night or day Shadow might surprise him there , and that would be the end of him .
He more than half suspected that Shadow was at that very time hiding somewhere along the way ready to spring out on him if he should try to go back home .
He had stayed in the room of Farmer Brown 's boy until Mrs. Brown had come to make the bed .
Then he had jumped out the window into the big maple tree .
He was n't quite sure of Mrs. Brown yet .
She had kindly eyes .
They were just like the eyes of Farmer Brown 's boy .
But he did n't feel really acquainted yet , and he felt safer outside than inside the room while she was there .
`` Oh dear , oh dear !
What shall I do ?
I have no home , and so To keep me warm and snug and safe I have no place to go ! ''
Happy Jack said this over and over as he sat in the maple tree , trying to decide what was to be done .
`` I wonder what ails that Squirrel .
He seems to be doing a lot of scolding , '' said Mrs. Brown , as she looked out of the window .
And that shows how easy it is to misunderstand people when we do n't know all about their affairs .
Mrs. Brown thought that Happy Jack was scolding , when all the time he was just frightened and worried and wondering where he could go and what he could do to feel safe from Shadow the Weasel .
Because he did n't dare to go back to the Green Forest , he spent most of the day in the big maple tree close to Farmer Brown 's house .
The window had been closed , so he could n't go inside .
He looked at it longingly a great many times during the day , hoping that he would find it open .
But he did n't .
You see , it was opened only at night when Farmer Brown 's boy went to bed , so that he would have plenty of fresh air all night .
Of course Happy Jack did n't know that .
All his life he had had plenty of fresh air all the time , and be could n't understand how people could live in houses all shut up .
Late that afternoon Farmer Brown 's boy , who had been at school all day , came whistling into the yard .
He noticed Happy Jack right away .
`` Hello !
You back again !
Is n't one good meal a day enough ? ''
he exclaimed .
`` He 's been there all day , '' said his mother , who had come to the door just in time to overhear him .
`` I do n't know what ails him . ''
Then Farmer Brown 's boy noticed how forlorn Happy Jack looked .
He remembered Happy Jack 's fright that morning .
`` I know what 's the matter ! ''
he cried .
`` It 's that Weasel .
The poor little chap is afraid to go home .
We must see what we can do for him .
I wonder if he will stay if I make a new house for him .
I believe I 'll try it and see . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII HAPPY JACK FINDS A NEW HOME They say the very darkest clouds Are lined with silver bright and fair , Though how they know I do not see , And neither do I really care .
It 's good to believe , and so I try To believe 't is true with all my might , That nothing is so seeming dark But has a hidden side that 's bright .
Happy Jack .
Certainly things could n't look much darker than they did to Happy Jack Squirrel as he sat in the big maple tree at the side of Farmer Brown 's house , and saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun getting ready to go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
He was afraid to go to his home in the Green Forest because Shadow the Weasel might be waiting for him there .
He was afraid of the night which would soon come .
He was cold , and he was hungry .
Altogether he was as miserable a little Squirrel as ever was seen .
He had just made up his mind that he would have to go look for a hollow in one of the trees in the Old Orchard in which to spend the night , when around the corner of the house came Farmer Brown 's boy with something under one arm and dragging a ladder .
He whistled cheerily to Happy Jack as he put the ladder against the tree and climbed up .
By this time Happy Jack had grown so timid that he was just a little afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , so he climbed as high up in the tree as he could get and watched what was going on below .
Even if he was afraid , there was comfort in having Farmer Brown 's boy near .
For some time Farmer Brown 's boy worked busily at the place where the branch that Happy Jack knew so well started out from the trunk of the tree towards the window of Farmer Brown 's boy 's room .
When he had fixed things to suit him , he went down the ladder and carried it away with him .
In the crotch of the tree he had left the queer thing that he had brought under his arm .
In spite of his fears , Happy Jack was curious .
Little by little he crept nearer .
What he saw was a box with a round hole , just about big enough for him to go through , in one end , and in front of it a little shelf .
On the shelf were some of the nuts that he liked best .
For a long time Happy Jack looked and looked .
Was it a trap ?
Somehow he could n't believe that it was .
What would Farmer Brown 's boy try to trap him for when they were such good friends ?
At last the sight of the nuts was too much for him .
It certainly was safe enough to help himself to those .
How good they tasted !
Almost before he knew it , they were gone .
Then he got up courage enough to peep inside .
The box was filled with soft hay .
It certainly did look inviting in there to a fellow who had no home and no place to go .
He put his head inside .
Finally he went wholly in .
It was just as nice as it looked .
`` I believe , '' thought Happy Jack , `` that he made this little house just for me , and that he put all this hay in here for my bed .
He does n't know much about making a bed , but I guess he means well . ''
With that he went to work happily to make up a bed to suit him , and by the time the first Black Shadow had crept as far as the big maple tree , Happy Jack was curled up fast asleep in his new house .
CHAPTER XXIX FARMER BROWN 'S BOY TAKES A PRISONER The craftiest and cleverest , the strongest and the bold Will make mistakes like other folks , young , middle-aged , and old .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel was happy once more .
He liked his new house , the house that Farmer Brown 's boy had made for him and fastened in the big maple tree close by the house in which he himself lived .
Happy Jack and Farmer Brown 's boy were getting to be greater friends than ever .
Every morning Happy Jack jumped over to the window-sill and then in at the open window of the room of Farmer Brown 's boy .
There he was sure to find a good breakfast of fat hickory nuts .
When Farmer Brown 's boy overslept , as he did sometimes , Happy Jack would jump up on the bed and waken him .
He thought this great fun .
So did Farmer Brown 's boy , though sometimes when he was very sleepy he pretended to scold , especially on Sunday mornings when he did not have to get up as early as on other days .
Of course , Black Pussy had soon discovered that Happy Jack was living in the big maple tree , and she spent a great deal of time sitting at the foot of it and glaring up at him with a hungry look in her eyes , although she was n't hungry at all , for she had plenty to eat .
Several times she climbed up in the tree and tried to catch him .
At first he had been afraid , but he soon found out that Black Pussy was not at all at home in a tree as he was .
After that , he rather enjoyed having her try to catch him .
It was almost like a game .
It was great fun to scold at her and let her get very near him and then , just as she was sure that she was going to catch him , to jump out of her reach .
After a while she was content to sit at the foot of the tree and just glare at him .
Happy Jack had only one worry now , and this did n't trouble him a great deal .
It was possible that Shadow the Weasel might take it into his head to try to surprise him some night .
Happy Jack knew that by this time Shadow must know where he was living , for of course Sammy Jay had found out , and Sammy is one of those who tells all he knows .
Still , being so close to Farmer Brown 's boy gave Happy Jack a very comfortable feeling .
Now all this time Farmer Brown 's boy had not forgotten Shadow the Weasel and how he had driven Happy Jack out of the Green Forest , and he had wondered a great many times if it would n't be a kindness to the other little people if he should trap Shadow and put him out of the way .
But you know he had given up trapping , and somehow he did n't like to think of setting a trap , even for such a mischief-maker as Shadow .
Then something happened that made Farmer Brown 's boy very , very angry .
One morning , when he went to feed the biddies , he found that Shadow had visited the henhouse in the night and killed three of his best pullets .
That decided him .
He felt sure that Shadow would come again , and he meant to give Shadow a surprise .
He hunted until he found the little hole through which Shadow had got into the henhouse , and there he set a trap .
`` I do n't like to do it , but I 've got to , '' said he .
`` If he had been content with one , it would have been bad enough , but he killed three just from the love of killing , and it is high time that something be done to get rid of him . ''
The very next morning Happy Jack saw Farmer Brown 's boy coming from the henhouse with something under his arm .
He came straight over to the foot of the big maple tree and put the thing he was carrying down on the ground .
He whistled to Happy Jack , and as Happy Jack came down to see what it was all about , Farmer Brown 's boy grinned .
`` Here 's a friend of yours you probably will be glad to see , '' said he .
At first , all Happy Jack could make out was a kind of wire box .
Then he saw something white inside , and it moved .
Very suspiciously Happy Jack came nearer .
Then his heart gave a great leap .
That wire box was a cage , and glaring between the wires with red , angry eyes was Shadow the Weasel !
He was a prisoner !
Right away Happy Jack was so excited that he acted as if he were crazy .
He no longer had a single thing to be afraid of .
Do you wonder that he was excited ?
CHAPTER XXX A PRISONER WITHOUT FEAR A bad name is easy to get but hard to live down .
Happy Jack .
Shadow the Weasel was a prisoner .
He who always had been free to go and come as he pleased and to do as he pleased was now in a little narrow cage and quite helpless .
For once he had been careless , and this was the result .
Farmer Brown 's boy had caught him in a trap .
Of course , he should have known better than to have visited the henhouse a second time after killing three of the best pullets there .
He should have known that Farmer Brown 's boy would be sure to do something about it .
The truth is , he had yielded to temptation when common sense had warned him not to .
So he had no one to blame for his present difficulty but himself , and he knew it .
At first he had been in a terrible rage and had bitten at the wires until he had made his mouth sore .
When he had made sure that the wires were stouter than his teeth , he wisely stopped trying to get out in that way , and made up his mind that the only thing to do was to watch for a chance to slip out , if the door of the cage should happen to be left unfastened .
Of course it hurt his pride terribly to be made fun of by those who always had feared him .
Happy Jack Squirrel was the first one of these to see him .
Farmer Brown 's boy had put the cage down near the foot of the big maple tree in which Happy Jack was living , because Shadow had driven him out of the Green Forest .
As soon as Happy Jack had made sure that Shadow really and truly was a prisoner and so quite harmless , he had acted as if he were crazy .
Perhaps he was -- crazy with joy .
You see , he no longer had anything to be really afraid of , for there was no one but Shadow from whom he could not get away by running into his house .
Billy Mink was the only other one who could follow him there , and Billy was not likely to come climbing up a tree so close to Farmer Brown 's house .
So Happy Jack raced up and down the tree in the very greatest excitement , and his tongue went quite as fast as his legs .
He wanted everybody to know that Shadow was a prisoner at last .
At first he did not dare go very close to the cage .
You see , he had so long feared Shadow that he was still afraid of him even though he was so helpless .
But little by little Happy Jack grew bolder and came very close .
And then he began doing something not at all nice .
He began calling Shadow names and making fun of him , and telling him how he was n't afraid of him .
It was all very foolish and worse -- it was like hitting a foe who was helpless .
Of course Happy Jack hastened to tell everybody he met all about Shadow , so it was n't long before Shadow began to receive many visitors .
Whenever Farmer Brown 's boy was not around there was sure to be one or more of the little people who had feared Shadow to taunt him and make fun of him .
Somehow it seems as if always it is that way when people get into trouble .
You know it is very easy to appear to be bold and brave when there is nothing to be afraid of .
Of course that is n't bravery at all , though many seem to think it is .
-LSB- Illustration : IT WAS N'T LONG BEFORE SHADOW BEGAN TO RECEIVE MANY VISITORS . -RSB-
Now what do you think that right down in their hearts all these little people who came to jeer at Shadow the Weasel hoped they would see ?
Why , they hoped they would see Shadow afraid .
Yes , Sir , that is just what they hoped .
But they did n't .
That is where they were disappointed .
Not once did Shadow show the least sign of fear .
He did n't know what Farmer Brown 's boy would do with him , and he had every reason to fear that if he was not to be kept a prisoner for the rest of his natural life , something dreadful would be the end .
But he was too proud and too brave to let any one know that any such fear ever entered his mind .
Whatever his faults , Shadow is no coward .
He boldly took bits of meat which Farmer Brown 's boy brought to him , and not once appeared in the least afraid , so that , much as he disliked him , Farmer Brown 's boy actually had to admire him .
He was a prisoner , but he kept just as stout a heart as ever .
CHAPTER XXXI WHAT FARMER BROWN 'S BOY DID WITH SHADOW Ribble , dibble , dibble , dab !
Some people have the gift of gab !
Some people have no tongues at all To trip them up and make them fall .
Happy Jack .
It is a fact , one of the biggest facts in all the world , that tongues make the greatest part of all the trouble that brings uncomfortable feelings , and bitterness and sadness and suffering and sorrow .
If it was n't for unruly , careless , mean tongues , the Great World would be a million times better to live in , a million times happier .
It is because of his unruly tongue that Sammy Jay is forever getting into trouble .
It is the same way with Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
And it is just the same way with a great many little boys and girls , and with grown-ups as well .
When the little people of the Green Forest and Green Meadows who fear Shadow the Weasel found that he was a prisoner , many of them took particular pains to visit him when the way was clear , just to make fun of him and tease him and tell him that they were not afraid of him and that they were glad that he was a prisoner , and that they were sure something dreadful would happen to him and they hoped it would .
Shadow said never a word in reply .
He was too wise to do that .
He just turned his back on them .
But all the time he was storing up in his mind all these hateful things , and he meant , if ever he got free again , to make life very uncomfortable for those whose foolish tongues were trying to make him more miserable than he already felt .
But these little people with the foolish tongues did n't stop to think of what might happen .
They just took it for granted that Shadow never again would run wild and free in the Green Forest , and so they just let their tongues run and enjoyed doing it .
Perhaps they would n't have , if they could have known just what was going on in the mind of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Ever since he had found Shadow in the trap which he had set for him in the henhouse , Farmer Brown 's boy had been puzzling over what he should do with his prisoner .
At first he had thought he would keep him in a cage the rest of his life .
But somehow , whenever he looked into Shadow 's fierce little eyes and saw how unafraid they looked , he got to thinking of how terrible it must be to be shut up in a little narrow cage when one has had all the Green Forest in which to go and come .
Then he thought that he would kill Shadow and put him out of his misery at once .
`` He killed my pullets , and he is always hunting the harmless little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , so he deserves to be killed , '' thought Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` He 's a pest . ''
Then he remembered that after all Shadow was one of Old Mother Nature 's little people , and that he must serve some purpose in Mother Nature 's great plan .
Bad as he seemed , she must have some use for him .
Perhaps it was to teach others through fear of him how to be smarter and take better care of themselves and so be better fitted to do their parts .
The more he thought of this , the harder it was for Farmer Brown 's boy to make up his mind to kill him .
But if he could n't keep him a prisoner and he could n't kill him , what could he do ?
He was scowling down at Shadow one morning and puzzling over this when a happy idea came to him .
`` I know what I 'll do ! ''
he exclaimed .
Without another word he picked up the cage with Shadow in it and started off across the Green Meadows , which now , you know , were not green at all but covered with snow .
Happy Jack watched him out of sight .
He had gone in the direction of the Old Pasture .
He was gone a long time , and when he did return , the cage was empty .
Happy Jack blinked at the empty cage .
Then he began to ask in a scolding tone , `` What did you do with him ?
What did you do with him ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy just smiled and tossed a nut to Happy Jack .
And far up in the Old Pasture , Shadow the Weasel was once more free .
It was well for Happy Jack 's peace of mind that he did n't know that .
CHAPTER XXXII HAPPY JACK IS PERFECTLY HAPPY Never say a thing is so Unless you absolutely know .
Just remember every day To be quite sure of what you say .
Happy Jack .
Taking things for granted does n't do at all in this world .
To take a thing for granted is to think that it is so without taking the trouble to find out whether it is or not .
It is apt not only to get you yourself into trouble , but to make trouble for other people as well .
Happy Jack saw Farmer Brown 's boy carry Shadow the Weasel away in a cage , and he saw him bring back the cage empty .
What could he have done with Shadow ?
For a while he teased Farmer Brown 's boy to tell him , but of course Farmer Brown 's boy did n't understand Happy Jack 's language .
Now Happy Jack knew just what he would like to believe .
He would like to believe that Farmer Brown 's boy had taken Shadow away and made an end of him .
And because he wanted to believe that , it was n't very hard to believe it .
There was the empty cage .
Of course Farmer Brown 's boy would n't have gone to the trouble of trapping Shadow unless he intended to get rid of him for good .
`` He 's made an end of him , that 's what he 's done ! ''
said Happy Jack to himself , because that is what he would have done if he had been in Farmer Brown 's boy 's place .
So having made up his mind that this is what had been done with Shadow , he at once told all his friends that it was so , and was himself supremely happy .
You see , he felt that he no longer had anything to worry about .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack was happy .
He liked the house Farmer Brown 's boy had made for him in the big maple tree close by his own house .
He was sure of plenty to eat , because Farmer Brown 's boy always looked out for that , and as a result Happy Jack was growing fat .
None of his enemies of the Green Forest dared come so near to Farmer Brown 's house , and the only one he had to watch out for at all was Black Pussy .
By this time he was n't afraid of her ; not a bit .
In fact , he rather enjoyed teasing her and getting her to chase him .
When she was dozing on the doorstep he liked to steal very close , wake her with a sharp bark , and then race for the nearest tree , and there scold her to his heart 's content .
He had made friends with Mrs. Brown and with Farmer Brown , and he even felt almost friends with Bowser the Hound .
Sometimes he would climb up on the roof of Bowser 's little house and drop nutshells on Bowser 's head when he was asleep .
The funny thing was Bowser never seemed to mind .
He would lazily open his eyes and wink one of them at Happy Jack and thump with his tail .
He seemed to feel that now Happy Jack was one of the family , just as he was .
So Happy Jack was just as happy as a fat Gray Squirrel with nothing to worry him could be .
He was so happy that Sammy Jay actually became jealous .
You know Sammy is a born trouble maker .
He visited Happy Jack every morning , and while he helped himself to the good things that he always found spread for him , for Farmer Brown 's boy always had something for the little feathered folk to eat , he would hint darkly that such goodness and kindness was not to be trusted , and that something was sure to happen .
That is just the way with some folks ; they always are suspicious .
But nothing that Sammy Jay could say troubled Happy Jack ; and Sammy would fly away quite put out because he could n't spoil Happy Jack 's happiness the least little bit .
CHAPTER XXXIII SAMMY JAY UPSETS HAPPY JACK A good deed well done often is overlooked , but you never are allowed to forget a mistake .
Happy Jack .
Sammy Jay chuckled as he flew across the snow-covered Green Meadows on his way to his home in the Green Forest .
He chuckled and he chuckled .
To have heard him you would have thought that either he had thought of something very pleasant , or something very pleasant had happened to him .
Once he turned in the direction of Farmer Brown 's house , but changed his mind as he saw the Black Shadows creeping out from the Purple Hills , and once more headed for the Green Forest .
`` Too late to-day .
Time I was home now .
It 'll keep until to-morrow , '' he muttered .
Then he chuckled , and he was still chuckling when he reached the big hemlock tree , among the thick branches of which he spent each night .
`` Do n't know what started me off to the Old Pasture this afternoon , but I 'm glad I went .
My , my , my , but I 'm glad I went , '' said he , as he fluffed out his feathers and prepared to tuck his head under his wing .
`` It pays to snoop around in this world and see what is going on .
I learned a long time ago not to believe everything I hear , and that the surest way to make sure of things is to find out for myself .
Nothing like using my own eyes and my own ears .
Well , I must get to sleep . ''
He began to chuckle again , and he was still chuckling as he fell asleep .
The next morning Sammy Jay was astir at the very first sign of light .
He waited just long enough to see that every feather was in place , for Sammy is a bit vain , and very particular about his dress .
Then he headed straight for Farmer Brown 's house .
Just as he expected he found Happy Jack Squirrel was awake , for Happy Jack is an early riser .
`` Good morning , '' said Sammy Jay , and tried very hard to make his voice sound smooth and pleasant , a very hard thing for Sammy to do , for his voice , you know , is naturally harsh and unpleasant .
`` You seem to be looking as happy as ever . ''
`` Of course I am , '' replied Happy Jack .
`` Why should n't I be ?
I have n't a thing to worry about .
Of course I 'm happy , and I hope you 're just as happy as I am .
I 'm going to get my breakfast now , and then I 'll be happier still . ''
`` That 's so .
There 's nothing like a good breakfast to make one happy , '' said Sammy Jay , helping himself to some suet tied to a branch of the maple tree .
`` By the way , I saw an old friend of yours yesterday .
He inquired after you particularly .
He did n't exactly send his love , but he said that he hoped you are as well and fat as ever , and that he will see you again some time .
He said that he did n't know of any one he likes to look at better than you . ''
Happy Jack looked flattered .
`` That was very nice of him , '' said he .
`` Who was it ? ''
`` Guess , '' replied Sammy .
Happy Jack scratched his head thoughtfully .
There were not many friends in winter .
Most of them were asleep or had gone to the far away southland .
`` Peter Rabbit , '' he ventured .
Sammy shook his head .
`` Jimmy Skunk ! ''
Again Sammy shook his head .
`` Jumper the Hare ! ''
`` Guess again , '' said Sammy , chuckling .
`` Little Joe Otter ! ''
`` Wrong , '' replied Sammy .
`` I give up .
Who was it ?
Do tell me , '' begged Happy Jack .
`` It was Shadow the Weasel ! ''
cried Sammy , triumphantly .
Happy Jack dropped the nut he was just going to eat , and in place of happiness something very like fear grew and grew in his eyes .
`` I -- I do n't believe you , '' he stammered .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy took him away and put an end to him .
I saw him take him . ''
`` But you did n't see him put an end to Shadow , '' declared Sammy , `` because he did n't .
He took him ` way up in the Old Pasture and let him go , and I saw him up there yesterday .
That 's what comes of guessing at things .
Shadow is no more dead than you are .
Well , I must be going along .
I hope you 'll enjoy your breakfast . ''
With this , off flew Sammy Jay , chuckling as if he thought he had done a very smart thing in upsetting Happy Jack , which goes to show what queer ideas some people have .
As for Happy Jack , he worried for a while , but as Shadow did n't come , and there was nothing else to worry about , little by little Happy Jack 's high spirits returned , until he was as happy as ever .
And now , though he has had many adventures since then , I must leave him , for there is no more room in this book .
Perhaps if you ask him , he will tell you of these other adventures himself .
Meanwhile , bashful little Mrs. Peter Rabbit is anxious that you should know something about her .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Johnny_Chuck.txt.out
I GENTLE SISTER SOUTH WIND ARRIVES `` Good news , good news for every one , above or down below , For Master Winsome Bluebird 's come to whistle off the snow ! ''
All the Green Meadows and all the Green Forest had heard the news .
Peter Rabbit had seen to that .
And just as soon as each of the little meadow and forest folks heard it , he hurried out to listen for himself and make sure that it was true .
And each , when he heard that sweet voice of Winsome Bluebird , had kicked up his heels and shouted `` Hurrah ! ''
You see they all knew that Winsome Bluebird never is very far ahead of gentle Sister South Wind , and that when she arrives , blustering , rough Brother North Wind is already on his way back to the cold , cold land where the ice never melts .
Of course Winsome Bluebird does n't really whistle off the snow , but after he comes , the snow disappears so fast that it seems as if he did .
It is surprising what a difference a little good news makes .
Of course nothing had really changed that first day when Winsome Bluebird 's whistle was heard on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , but it seemed as if everything had changed .
And it was all because that sweet whistle was a promise , a promise that every one knew would come true .
And so there was joy in all the hearts on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
Even grim old Granny Fox felt it , and as for Reddy Fox , why , Reddy even shouted good-naturedly to Peter Rabbit and hoped he was feeling well .
And then gentle Sister South Wind arrived .
She came in the night , and in the morning there she was , hard at work making the Green Meadows and the Green Forest ready for Mistress Spring .
She broke the icy bands that had bound the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook so long ; and the Smiling Pool began to smile once more , and the Laughing Brook to gurgle and then to laugh and finally to sing merrily .
She touched the little banks of snow that remained , and straightway they melted and disappeared .
She kissed the eight babies of Unc ' Billy Possum , and they kicked off the bedclothes under which old Mrs. Possum had tucked them and scrambled out of the big hollow tree to play .
She peeped in at the door of Johnny Chuck and called softly , and Johnny Chuck awoke from his long sleep and yawned and began to think about getting up .
She knocked at the door of Digger the Badger , and Digger awoke .
She tickled the nose of Striped Chipmunk , who was about half awake , and Striped Chipmunk sneezed and then he hopped out of bed and hurried up to his doorway to shout good morning after her , as she hurried over to see if Bobby Coon was still sleeping .
Peter Rabbit followed her about .
He could n't understand it at all .
Peter had smiled to himself when he heard how softly she had called at the doorway of Johnny Chuck 's house , for many and many a time during the long winter Peter had stopped at Johnny Chuck 's house and shouted down the long hall at the top of his voice without once waking Johnny Chuck .
Now Peter nearly tumbled over with surprise , as he heard Johnny Chuck yawn at the first low call of gentle Sister South Wind .
`` How does she do it ?
I do n't understand it at all , '' said Peter , as he scratched his long left ear with his long left hind leg .
Gentle Sister South Wind smiled at Peter .
`` There are a lot of things in this world that you will never understand , Peter Rabbit .
You will just have to believe them without understanding them and be content to know that they are so , '' she said , and hurried over to the Green Forest to tell Unc ' Billy Possum that his old friend , Ol' Mistah Buzzard , was on his way up from ol' Virginny .
II JOHNNY CHUCK RECEIVES CALLERS The morning after gentle Sister South Wind arrived on the Green Meadows , Peter Rabbit came hopping and skipping down the Lone Little Path from the Green Forest .
Peter was happy .
He did n't know why .
He just was happy .
It was in the air .
Everybody else seemed happy , too .
Peter had to stop every few minutes just to kick up his heels and try to jump over his own shadow .
He had felt just that way ever since gentle Sister South Wind arrived .
`` I simply have to kick and dance !
I can not help but gaily prance !
Somehow I feel it in my toes Whenever gentle South Wind blows . ''
So sang Peter Rabbit as he hopped and skipped down the Lone Little Path .
Suddenly he stopped right in the middle of the verse .
He sat up very straight and stared down at Johnny Chuck 's house .
Some one was sitting on Johnny Chuck 's door-step .
It looked like Johnny Chuck .
No , it looked like the shadow of Johnny Chuck .
Peter rubbed his eyes and looked again .
Then he hurried as fast as he could , lipperty-lipperty - lip .
The nearer he got , the less like Johnny Chuck looked the one sitting on Johnny Chuck 's door-step .
Johnny Chuck had gone to sleep round and fat and roly-poly , so fat he could hardly waddle .
This fellow was thin , even thinner than Peter Rabbit himself .
He waved a thin hand to Peter .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
I told you that I would see you in the spring .
How did you stand the long winter ? ''
That certainly was Johnny Chuck 's voice .
Peter was so delighted that in his hurry he fell over his own feet .
`` Is it really and truly you , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he cried .
`` Of course it 's me ; who did you think it was ? ''
replied Johnny Chuck rather crossly , for Peter was staring at him as if he had never seen him before .
`` I -- I -- I did n't know , '' confessed Peter Rabbit .
`` I thought it was you and I thought it was n't you .
What have you been doing to yourself , Johnny Chuck ?
Your coat looks three sizes too big for you , and when I last saw you it did n't look big enough . ''
Peter hopped all around Johnny Chuck , looking at him as if he did n't believe his own eyes .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Is it really and truly you , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he cried . -RSB-
`` Oh , Johnny 's all right .
He 's just been living on his own fat , '' said another voice .
It was Jimmy Skunk who had spoken , and he now stood holding out his hand to Johnny Chuck and grinning good-naturedly .
He had come up without either of the others seeing him .
Peter 's big eyes opened wider than ever .
`` Do you mean to say that he has been eating his own fat ? ''
he gasped .
Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk both laughed .
`` No , '' said Jimmy Skunk , `` he did n't eat it , but he lived on it just the same while he was asleep all winter .
Do n't you see he has n't got a particle of fat on him now ? ''
`` But how could he live on it , if he did n't eat it ? ''
asked Peter , staring at Johnny Chuck as if he had never seen him before .
Jimmy Skunk shrugged his shoulders .
`` Do n't ask me .
That is one of Old Mother Nature 's secrets ; you 'll have to ask her , '' he replied .
`` And do n't ask me , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` for I 've been asleep all the time .
My , but I 'm hungry ! ''
`` So am I ! ''
said another voice .
There was Reddy Fox grinning at them .
Johnny Chuck dove into the doorway of his house with Peter Rabbit at his heels , for there was nowhere else to go .
Jimmy Skunk just stood still and chuckled .
He knew that Reddy Fox did n't dare touch him .
III THE SINGERS OF THE SMILING POOL Mistress Spring was making everybody happy on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest and around the Smiling Pool .
With her gentle fingers she wakened one by one all the little sleepers who had spent the long winter dreaming of warm summer days and not knowing anything at all of rough , blustering Brother North Wind or Jack Frost .
As they wakened , many began to sing for joy .
But the clearest , loudest singers of all lived in the Smiling Pool .
It was a long time before Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck knew where they lived .
Every night just before going to bed , Johnny Chuck would sit on his door-step just to listen , and as he listened somehow he felt better and happier ; and he always had pleasant dreams after listening to the sweet singers of the Smiling Pool .
Even after he had curled himself up for the night deep down in his snug bedroom , he could hear those sweet voices , and whenever he waked up in the night he would hear them .
`` Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Beautiful , beautiful , beautiful Spring !
So gentle , so loving , so sweet and so fair !
Oh , who can be cross when there 's love in the air ?
Be happy !
Be joyful !
And join in our song And help us to send the glad tidings along !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Beautiful , beautiful , beautiful Spring ! ''
When Johnny Chuck had first heard them , he had looked in all the tree - tops for the singers , but not one could he see .
Then he had thought that they must be hidden in the bushes ; but when he went to look , he found that the sweet singers were not there .
It was very mysterious .
Finally he asked Peter Rabbit if he knew who the sweet singers were and where they were .
Peter did n't know , but he was willing to try to find out .
Peter is always willing to try to find out about things he does n't already know about .
So Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit started out to find the sweet singers .
`` I believe they are down in the old bulrushes around the Smiling Pool , '' said Peter Rabbit , as he stood listening with a hand behind one long ear .
So over to the Smiling Pool they hurried .
The nearer they got , the louder became the voices singing : `` Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Beautiful , beautiful , beautiful Spring ! ''
But look as they would , they could n't see a single singer among the brown bulrushes .
It was very strange , very strange indeed !
It seemed as if the voices came right out of the Smiling Pool itself !
When Peter Rabbit made a little noise , as he hopped out on the bank where he could look all over the Smiling Pool , the singing stopped .
After he had sat perfectly still for a little while , it began again .
There was no doubt about it this time ; those voices came right out of the water .
Johnny Chuck stared at Peter Rabbit , and Peter stared at Johnny Chuck .
Nobody was to be seen in the Smiling Pool , and yet there were those voices -- oh , so many of them -- coming right out of the water .
`` How can birds stay under water and still sing ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck whirled around , to find Jerry Muskrat peeping up at them from a hole in the bank almost under their feet .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Ho , ho , ho !
That 's the best joke this spring ! ''
shouted Jerry Muskrat . -RSB-
`` Ho , ho , ho !
That 's the best joke this spring ! ''
shouted Jerry Muskrat , and laughed until he had to hold his sides .
`` Birds under water !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
IV JOHNNY CHUCK FINDS OUT WHO THE SWEET SINGERS ARE Johnny Chuck could n't keep away from the Smiling Pool .
No , Sir , Johnny Chuck could n't keep away from the Smiling Pool .
Ever since he and Peter Rabbit had gone over there looking for the sweet singers , who every night and part of the day told all who would listen how glad they were that Mistress Spring had come to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , Johnny Chuck had had something on his mind .
And this is why he could n't keep away from the Smiling Pool .
You see it was this way : Johnny and Peter had thought that of course the sweet singers were birds .
They had n't dreamed of anything else .
So of course they went looking for birds .
When they reached the Smiling Pool , the voices came right out of the water .
Johnny knew that some birds , like many of the cousins of Mrs. Quack , can stay under water a long time , and so he did n't know but some other birds might .
Jerry Muskrat was always watching for Johnny , whenever he came to the Smiling Pool , and his eyes would twinkle as he would gravely say : `` Hello , Johnny Chuck !
Have you seen the birds sing under water yet ? ''
Johnny would smile good-naturedly and reply : `` Not yet , Jerry Muskrat .
Wo n't you point them out to me ? ''
Then Jerry would reply : `` Two eyes you have , bright as can be ; Perhaps some day you 'll learn to see . ''
Then Johnny Chuck would sit as still as ever he knew how , and watch and watch the Smiling Pool , but not a bird did he see in the water , though the singers were still there .
One day a sudden thought popped into his head .
Perhaps those singers were not birds at all !
Why had n't he thought of that before ?
Perhaps it was because he was looking so hard for birds that he had n't seen anything else .
Johnny began to look , not for anything in particular , but to see everything that he could .
Almost right away he saw some tiny little dark spots on the water .
They did n't look like much of anything .
They were so small that he had n't noticed them before .
One of them was quite close to him , and as Johnny Chuck looked at it , it began to look like a tiny nose , and then -- why , just then , Johnny was very sure that one of those singing voices came right from that very spot !
He was so surprised that he hopped to his feet and excitedly beckoned to Jerry Muskrat .
The instant he did that , the voices near him stopped singing , and the little spots on the water disappeared , leaving just the tiniest of little rings , just such tiny little rings as drops of rain falling on the Smiling Pool would make .
And when that tiny spot nearest to him that looked like a tiny nose disappeared , Johnny Chuck caught just a glimpse of a little form under the water .
`` Why -- why-e-e !
The singers are Grandfather Frog 's children ! ''
cried Johnny Chuck .
`` No , they 're not , but they are own cousins to them ; they are the grandchildren of old Mr. Tree Toad !
and they are called Hylas ! ''
said Jerry Muskrat , laughing and rubbing his hands in great glee .
`` I told you that if you used your eyes , you 'd learn to see . ''
`` My , but they 've got voices bigger than they are ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , as he started home across the Green Meadows .
`` I 'm glad I know who the singers of the Smiling Pool are , and I must n't forget their name -- Hylas .
What a funny name ! ''
But Farmer Brown 's boy , listening to their song that evening , did n't call them Hylas .
He said : `` Hear the peepers !
Spring is surely here . ''
V JOHNNY CHUCK BECOMES DISSATISFIED Johnny Chuck was unhappy .
Here it was the glad springtime , when everybody is supposed to be the very happiest , and Johnny Chuck was unhappy .
Why was he unhappy ?
Well , he hardly knew himself .
He had slept comfortably all the long winter .
He had awakened very , very hungry , but now he had plenty to eat .
All about him the birds were singing or busily at work building new homes .
And still Johnny Chuck felt unhappy .
It was dreadful to feel this way and not have any good reason for it .
One bright morning Johnny Chuck sat on his door-step watching Drummer the Woodpecker building a new home in the old apple-tree .
Drummer 's red head flew back and forth , back and forth , and his sharp bill cut out tiny bits of wood .
It was slow work ; it was hard work .
But Drummer seemed happy , very happy indeed .
It was watching Drummer that started Johnny Chuck to thinking about his own home .
He had always thought it a very nice home .
He had built it just as he wanted it .
From the doorstep he could look in all directions over the Green Meadows .
It had a front door and a hidden back door .
Yes , it was a very nice home indeed .
But now , all of a sudden , Johnny Chuck became dissatisfied with his home .
It was too near the Lone Little Path .
Too many people knew where it was .
It was n't big enough .
The front door ought to face the other way .
Dear me , what a surprising lot of faults a discontented heart can find with things that have always been just right !
It was so with Johnny Chuck .
That house in which he had spent so many happy days , which had protected him from all harm , of which he had been so proud when he first built it , was now the meanest house in the world .
If other people had new houses , why should n't he ?
The more he thought about it , the more dissatisfied and discontented he became and of course the more unhappy .
You know one can not be dissatisfied and discontented and happy at the same time .
Now dissatisfied and discontented people are not at all pleasant to have around .
Johnny Chuck had always been one of the best natured of all the little meadow people , and everybody liked him .
So Jimmy Skunk did n't know quite what to make of it , when he came down the Lone Little Path and found Johnny Chuck so out of sorts that he would n't even answer when spoken to .
Jimmy Skunk was feeling very good-natured himself .
He had just had a fine breakfast of fat beetles and he was at peace with all the world .
So he sat down beside Johnny Chuck and began to talk , just as if Johnny Chuck was his usual good-natured self .
`` It 's a fine day , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
Johnny Chuck just sniffed .
`` You 're looking very fine , '' said Jimmy .
Johnny just scowled .
`` I think you 've got the best place on the Green Meadows for a house , '' said Jimmy , pretending to admire the view .
Johnny scowled harder than ever .
`` And such a splendid house ! ''
said Jimmy .
`` I wish I had one like it . ''
`` I 'm glad you like it !
You can have the old thing ! ''
snapped Johnny Chuck .
`` What 's that ? ''
demanded Jimmy Skunk , opening his eyes very wide .
`` I said that you can have it .
I 'm going to move , '' replied Johnny Chuck .
Now he really had n't thought of moving until that very minute .
And he did n't know why he had said it .
But he had said it , and because he is an obstinate little fellow he stuck to it .
`` When can I move in ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk , his eyes twinkling .
`` Right away , if you want to , '' replied Johnny Chuck , and swaggered off down the Lone Little Path , leaving Jimmy Skunk to stare after him as if he thought Johnny Chuck had suddenly gone crazy , as indeed he did .
VI JOHNNY CHUCK TURNS TRAMP Johnny Chuck had turned tramp .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck had turned tramp .
It was a funny thing to do , but he had done it .
He did n't know why he had done it , excepting that he had become dissatisfied and discontented and unhappy in his old home .
And then , almost without thinking what he was doing , he had told Jimmy Skunk that he could have the house he had worked so hard to build the summer before and of which he had been so proud .
Then Johnny Chuck had swaggered away down the Lone Little Path without once looking back at the home he was leaving .
Where was he going ?
Well , to tell the truth , Johnny did n't know .
He was going to see the world , and perhaps when he had seen the world , he would build him a new house .
So as long as he was in sight of Jimmy Skunk , he swaggered along quite as if he was used to traveling about , without any snug house to go to at night .
But right down in his heart Johnny Chuck did n't feel half so bold as he pretended .
You see , not since he was a little Chuck and had run away from old Mother Chuck with Peter Rabbit , had he ever been very far from his own door-step .
He had always been content to grow fat and roly-poly right near his own home , and listen to the tales of the great world from Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Unc ' Billy Possum , all of whom are great travelers .
But now , here he was , actually setting forth , and without a home to come back to !
You see , he had made up his mind that no matter what happened , he would n't come back , after having given his house to Jimmy Skunk .
When he had reached a place where he thought Jimmy Skunk could n't see him , Johnny Chuck turned and looked back , and a queer little feeling seemed to make a lump that filled his throat and choked him .
The fact is , Johnny Chuck already began to feel homesick .
But he swallowed very hard and tried to make himself think that he was having a splendid time .
He stopped looking back and started on , and as he tramped along , he tried to sing a song he had once heard Jimmy Skunk sing : `` The world may stretch full far and wide -- What matters that to me ?
I 'll tramp it up ; I 'll tramp it down !
For I am bold and free . ''
It was a very brave little song , but Johnny Chuck did n't feel half so brave and bold as he tried to think he did .
Already he was beginning to wonder where he should spend the night .
Then he thought of old Whitetail the Marshhawk , who had given him such a fright and had so nearly caught him when he was a little fellow .
The thought made him look around hastily , and there was old Whitetail himself , sailing back and forth hungrily just ahead of him .
A great fear took possession of Johnny Chuck , and he made himself as flat as possible in the grass , for there was no place to hide .
He made up his mind that anyway he would fight .
Nearer and nearer came old Whitetail !
Finally he passed right over Johnny Chuck .
But he did n't offer to touch him .
Indeed , it seemed to Johnny that old Whitetail actually grinned and winked at him .
And right then all his fear left him .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Johnny Chuck scornfully .
`` Who 's afraid of him ! ''
He suddenly realized that he was no longer a helpless little Chuck who could n't take care of himself , but big and strong , with sharp teeth with which his old enemy had no mind to make a closer acquaintance , when there were mice and snakes to be caught without fighting .
So he puffed out his chest and went on , and actually began to enjoy himself , and almost wished for a chance to show how big and strong he was .
VII JOHNNY 'S FIRST ADVENTURE After old Whitetail the Marshhawk passed Johnny Chuck without offering to touch him , Johnny began to feel very brave and bold and important .
He strutted and swaggered along as much as his short legs would let him .
He held his head very high .
Already he felt that he had had an adventure and he longed for more .
He forgot the terrible lonesome feeling of a little while before .
He forgot that he had given away the only home he had .
He did n't know just why , but right down deep inside he had a sudden feeling that he really did n't care a thing about that old home .
In fact , he felt as if he would n't care if he never had another home .
Yes , Sir , that is the way that Johnny Chuck felt .
Do you know why ?
Just because he had just begun to realize how big and strong he really was .
Now it is a splendid thing to feel big and strong and brave , a very splendid thing !
But it is a bad thing to let that feeling turn to pride , foolish pride .
Of course old Whitetail had n't really been afraid of Johnny Chuck .
He had simply passed Johnny with a wink , because there was plenty to eat without the trouble of fighting , and Whitetail does n't fight just for the fun of it .
But foolish Johnny Chuck really thought that old Whitetail was afraid of him .
The more he thought about it , the more tickled he felt and the more puffed up he felt .
He began to talk to himself and to brag .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck began to brag : `` I 'm not afraid of any one ; They 're all afraid of me !
I only have to show my teeth To make them turn and flee ! ''
`` Pooh ! ''
said a voice .
`` Pooh !
It would take two like you to make me run away ! ''
Johnny Chuck gave a startled jump .
There was a strange Chuck glaring at him from behind a little bunch of grass .
He was a big , gray old Chuck whom Johnny never had seen on the Green Meadows before , and he did n't look the least bit afraid .
No , Sir , he did n't look the teeniest , weeniest bit afraid !
Somehow , Johnny Chuck did n't feel half so big and strong and brave as he had a few minutes before .
But it would n't do to let this stranger know it .
Of course not !
So , though he felt very small inside , Johnny made all his hair bristle up and tried to look very fierce .
`` Who are you and what are you doing on my Green Meadows ? ''
he demanded .
`` Your Green Meadows !
Your Green Meadows !
Ho , ho , ho !
Your Green Meadows ! ''
The stranger laughed an unpleasant laugh .
`` How long since you owned the Green Meadows ?
I have just come down on to them from the Old Pasture , and I like the looks of them so well that I think I will stay .
So run along , little boaster !
There is n't room for both of us here , and the sooner you trot along the better . ''
The stranger suddenly showed all his teeth and gritted them unpleasantly .
Now when Johnny Chuck heard this , great anger filled his heart .
A stranger had ordered him to leave the Green Meadows where he had been born and always lived !
He could hardly believe his own ears .
He , Johnny Chuck , would show this stranger who was master here !
With a squeal of rage , Johnny sprang at the gray old Chuck .
Then began such a fight as the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind had never seen before .
They danced around excitedly and cried : `` How dreadful ! ''
and hoped that Johnny Chuck would win , for you know they loved him very much .
Over and over the two little fighters rolled , biting and scratching and tearing and growling and snarling .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun hid his face behind a cloud , so as not to see such a dreadful sight .
The stranger had been in many fights and he was very crafty .
For a while Johnny felt that he was getting the worst of it , and he began to wonder if he really would have to leave the Green Meadows .
The very thought filled him with new rage and he fought harder than ever .
Now the stranger was old and his teeth were worn , while Johnny was young and his teeth were very sharp .
After a long , long time , Johnny felt the stranger growing weaker .
Johnny fought harder than ever .
At last the stranger cried `` Enough ! ''
and when he could break away , started back towards the Old Pasture .
Johnny Chuck had won !
VIII JOHNNY HAS ANOTHER ADVENTURE Johnny Chuck lay stretched out on the cool , soft grass of the Green Meadows , panting for breath .
He was very tired and very sore .
His face was scratched and bitten .
His clothes were torn , and he smarted dreadfully in a dozen places .
But still Johnny Chuck was happy .
When he raised his head to look , he could see a gray old Chuck limping off towards the Old Pasture .
Once in a while the gray old Chuck would turn his head and show his teeth , but he kept right on towards the Old Pasture .
Johnny Chuck smiled .
It had been a great fight , and more than once Johnny Chuck had thought that he should have to give up .
He thought of this now , and then he thought with shame of how he had bragged and boasted just before the fight .
What if he had lost ?
He resolved that he would never again brag or boast .
But he also made up his mind that if any one should pick a quarrel with him , he would show that he was n't afraid .
It was getting late in the afternoon when Johnny finally felt rested enough to go on .
He had got to find a place to spend the night .
He hobbled along , for he was very stiff and sore , until he came to the edge of the Green Meadows , where they meet the Green Forest .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was almost ready to go down to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
Shadows were already beginning to creep through the Green Forest .
Somehow they gave Johnny Chuck that same lonesome feeling that he had had when he first left his old home .
You see he had always lived out in the Green Meadows and somehow he was afraid of the Green Forest in the night .
So , instead of going into the Green Forest , he wandered along the edge of it , looking for a place in which to spend the night .
At last he came to a hollow log lying just out on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Very carefully Johnny Chuck examined it , to be sure that no one else was using it .
`` It 's just the place I 'm looking for ! ''
he said aloud .
Just then there was a sharp hiss , a very fierce hiss .
Johnny Chuck felt the hair on his neck rise as it always did when he heard that hiss , and he was n't at all surprised , when he turned his head , to find Mr. Blacksnake close by .
Mr. Blacksnake glided swiftly up to the old log and coiled himself in front of the opening .
Then he raised his head and ran out his tongue in the most impudent way .
`` Run along , Johnny Chuck !
I 've decided to sleep here myself to-night ! ''
he said sharply .
Now when Johnny Chuck was a very little fellow , he had been in great fear of Mr. Blacksnake , as he had had reason to be .
And because he did n't know any better , he had been afraid ever since .
Mr. Blacksnake knew this and so now he looked as ugly as he knew how .
But you see he did n't know about the great fight that Johnny Chuck had just won .
Now to win an honest fight always makes one feel very strong and very sure of oneself .
Johnny looked at Mr. Blacksnake and saw that Mr. Blacksnake did n't look half as big as Johnny had always thought he did .
He made up his mind that as he had found the old log first , he had the best right to it .
`` I found it first and I 'm going to keep it ! ''
snapped Johnny Chuck , and with every hair on end and gritting his teeth , he walked straight towards Mr. Blacksnake .
Now Mr. Blacksnake is a great bluffer , while at heart he is really a coward .
With a fierce hiss he rushed right at Johnny Chuck , expecting to see him turn tail and run .
But Johnny stood his ground and showed all his sharp teeth .
Instead of attacking Johnny , Mr. Blacksnake glided past him and sneaked away through the grass .
Johnny Chuck chuckled as he crept into the hollow log .
`` Only a coward runs away without fighting , '' he murmured sleepily .
IX ANOTHER STRANGE CHUCK Johnny Chuck awoke just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun pulled his own nightcap off .
At first Johnny could n't think where he was .
He blinked and blinked .
Then he rolled over .
`` Ouch ! ''
cried Johnny Chuck .
You see he was so stiff and sore from his great fight the day before , that it hurt to roll over .
But when he felt the smart of those wounds , he remembered where he was .
He was in the old hollow log that he had found on the edge of the Green Meadows just before dark .
It was the first time that Johnny had ever slept anywhere , excepting underground , and as he lay blinking his eyes , it seemed very strange and rather nice , too .
`` Well , well , well !
What are you doing here ? ''
cried a sharp voice .
Johnny Chuck looked towards the open end of the old log .
There , peeping in , was a little face as sharp as the voice .
`` Hello , Chatterer ! ''
cried Johnny .
`` I say , what are you doing here ? ''
persisted Chatterer the Red Squirrel , for it was he .
`` Just waking up , '' replied Johnny , with a grin .
`` It 's time , '' replied Chatterer .
`` But that is n't telling me what you are doing so far from home . ''
`` I have n't any home , '' said Johnny , his face growing just a wee bit wistful .
`` You have n't any home ! ''
Chatterer 's voice sounded as if he did n't think he had heard aright .
`` What have you done with it ? ''
`` Given it to Jimmy Skunk , '' replied Johnny Chuck .
Now Chatterer never gives anything to anybody , and how any one could give away his home was more than he could understand .
He stared at Johnny as if he thought Johnny had gone crazy .
Finally he found his tongue .
`` I do n't believe it ! ''
he snapped .
`` If Jimmy Skunk has got your old home , it 's because he put you out of it . ''
`` No such thing !
I 'd like to see Jimmy Skunk or anybody else put me out of my home ! ''
Johnny Chuck spoke scornfully .
`` I gave it to him because I did n't want it any longer .
I 'm going to see the world , and then I 'm going to build me a new home .
Everybody else seems to be building new homes this spring ; why should n't I ? ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
retorted Chatterer .
`` I know enough to know when I am well off .
`` Who has a discontented heart Is sure to play a sorry part . ''
Johnny Chuck crawled out of the old log and stretched himself somewhat painfully .
`` That may be , but there are different kinds of discontent .
Who never looks for better things Will live his life in little rings .
Well , I must be moving along , if I am to see the world . ''
So Johnny Chuck bade Chatterer good-by and started on .
It was very delightful to wander over the Green Meadows on such a beautiful spring morning .
The violets and the wind-flowers nodded to him , and the dandelions smiled up at him .
Johnny almost forgot his torn clothes and the bites and scratches of his great fight with the gray old Chuck the day before .
It was fun to just go where he pleased and not have a care in the world .
He was thinking of this , as he sat up to look over the Green Meadows .
His heart gave a great throb .
What was that over near the lone elm - tree ?
It was -- yes , it certainly was another Chuck !
Could it be the old gray Chuck come back for another fight ?
A great anger filled the heart of Johnny Chuck , and he whistled sharply .
The strange Chuck did n't answer .
Johnny ground his teeth and started for the lone elm-tree .
He would show this other Chuck who was master of the Green Meadows !
X WHY JOHNNY CHUCK DID N'T FIGHT Anger is an awful thing ; It never stops to reason .
It boils right over all at once , No matter what the season .
It was so with Johnny Chuck .
The minute he caught sight of the strange Chuck over by the lone elm-tree , anger filled his heart and fairly boiled over , until he was in a terrible rage .
Of course it was foolish , very foolish indeed .
The strange Chuck had n't said or done anything to make Johnny Chuck angry , not the least thing in the world , excepting to come down on to the Green Meadows .
Now the Green Meadows are very broad , and there is room for many Chucks .
It was pure selfishness on the part of Johnny Chuck to want to drive away every other Chuck .
But anger never stops to reason .
It did n't now .
Johnny Chuck hurried as fast as his short legs could take him towards the lone elm-tree , and in his mind was just one thought -- to drive that strange Chuck off the Green Meadows and to punish him so that he never , never would dare even think of coming back .
So great was Johnny 's anger that every hair stood on end , and as he ran he chattered and scolded .
`` I 'll fix him !
These are my Green Meadows , and no one else has any business here unless I say so !
I 'll fix him !
I 'll fix him ! ''
Then Johnny would grind his teeth , and in his eyes was the ugliest look .
He was n't nice to see , not a bit nice .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind did n't know what to make of him .
Could this be the Johnny Chuck they had known so long , the good-natured , happy Johnny Chuck whom everybody loved ?
They drew away from him , for they did n't want anything to do with any one in such a frightful temper .
But Johnny Chuck did n't even notice , and if he had he would n't have cared .
That is the trouble with anger .
It crowds out everything else , when it once fills the heart .
When Johnny had first seen the stranger , he had thought right away that it was the old gray Chuck with whom he had had such a terrible fight the day before and whom he whipped .
Perhaps that was one reason for Johnny Chuck 's terrible anger now , for the old gray Chuck had tried to drive Johnny Chuck off the Green Meadows .
But when he had to stop for breath and sat up to look again , he saw that it was n't the old gray Chuck at all .
It was a younger Chuck and much smaller than the old gray Chuck .
It was smaller than Johnny himself .
`` He 'll be all the easier to whip , '' muttered Johnny , as he started on again , never once thinking of how unfair it would be to fight with one smaller than himself .
That was because he was so angry .
Anger never is fair .
Pretty soon he reached the lone elm-tree .
The stranger was n't to be seen !
No , Sir , the stranger was n't anywhere in sight .
Johnny Chuck sat up and looked this way and looked that way , but the stranger was nowhere in sight .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , `` He 's afraid to fight !
He 's a coward .
But he ca n't get away from me so easily .
He 's hiding , and I 'll find him and then -- '' Johnny did n't finish , but he ground his teeth , and it was n't a pleasant sound to hear .
So Johnny Chuck hunted for the stranger , and the longer he hunted the angrier he grew .
Somehow the stranger managed to keep out of his sight .
He was almost ready to give up , when he almost stumbled over the stranger , hiding in a little clump of bushes .
And then a funny thing happened .
What do you think it was ?
Why , all the anger left Johnny Chuck .
His hair no longer stood on end .
He did n't know why , but all of a sudden he felt foolish , very foolish indeed .
`` Who are you ? ''
he demanded gruffly .
`` I -- I 'm Polly Chuck , '' replied the stranger , in a small , timid voice .
XI THE GREATEST THING IN THE WORLD Johnny Chuck had begun to think about his clothes .
Yes , Sir , he spent a whole lot of time thinking about how he looked and wishing that he had a handsomer coat .
For the first time in all his life he began to envy Reddy Fox , because of the beautiful red coat of which Reddy is so proud .
It seemed to Johnny that his own coat was so plain and so dull that no one would look at it twice .
Besides , it was torn now , because of the great fight Johnny had had with the old gray Chuck who came down from the Old Pasture .
Johnny smoothed it down and brushed it carefully and tried to make himself look as spick and span as he knew how .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
he sighed .
`` I do n't see why Old Mother Nature did n't give me as handsome a coat as she did Reddy Fox .
And there are Jimmy Skunk and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and -- and -- why , almost every one has a handsomer coat than I have ! ''
Now this was n't at all like Johnny Chuck .
First he had been discontented with his house and had given it to Jimmy Skunk .
Now he was discontented with his clothes .
What was coming over Johnny Chuck ?
He really did n't know himself .
At least , he would n't have admitted that he knew .
But right down deep in his heart was a great desire -- the desire to have Polly Chuck admire him .
Yes , Sir , that is what it was !
And it seemed to him that she would admire him a great deal more if he wore fine clothes .
You see , he had n't learned yet what Peter Rabbit had learned a long time ago , which is that Fine clothes but catch the passing eye ; Fine deeds win love from low and high .
So Johnny Chuck wished and wished that he had a handsome suit , but as he did n't , and no amount of wishing would bring him one , he just made the one he did have look as good as he could , and then went in search of Polly Chuck .
Sometimes she would not notice him at all .
Sometimes he would find her shyly peeping at him from behind a clump of grass .
Then Johnny Chuck would try to make himself look very important , and would strut about as if he really did own the Green Meadows .
Sometimes she would hide from him , and when he found her she would run away .
Other times she would be just as nice to him as she could be , and they would have a jolly time hunting for sweet clover and other nice things to eat .
Then Johnny Chuck 's heart would swell until it seemed to him that it would fairly burst with happiness .
Instead of wanting to drive Polly Chuck away from the Green Meadows , as he had the old gray Chuck , Johnny began to worry for fear that Polly Chuck might not stay on the Green Meadows .
Whenever he thought of that , his heart would sink way , way down , and he would hurry to look for her and make sure that she was still there .
When he was beside her , he felt very big and strong and brave and longed for a chance to show her how brave he was .
She was such a timid little thing herself that the least little thing frightened her , and Johnny Chuck was glad that this was so , for it gave him a chance to protect her .
When he was n't with her , he spent his time looking for new patches of sweet clover to take her to .
At first she would n't go without a great deal of coaxing , but after a while he did n't have to coax at all .
She seemed to delight to be with him as much as he did to be with her .
So Johnny Chuck grew happier and happier .
He was happier than he had ever been in all his life before .
You see Johnny Chuck had found the greatest thing in the world .
Do you know what it is ?
It is called love .
XII JOHNNY CHUCK PROVES HIS LOVE These spring days were beautiful days on the Green Meadows .
It seemed to Johnny Chuck that the Green Meadows never had been so lovely or the songs of the birds so sweet .
He had forgotten all about his old friends , Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit and the other little meadow people .
You see , he could n't think of anybody but Polly Chuck , and he did n't want to be with anybody but Polly Chuck .
He had even forgotten that he had started out to see the world .
He did n't care anything more about the world .
All he wanted was to be where Polly Chuck was .
Then he was perfectly happy .
That was because Johnny Chuck had found the greatest thing in the world , which is love .
But Johnny still had one great wish , the wish that he might show Polly Chuck just how brave and strong he was and how well he could take care of her .
One morning they were feasting in a patch of sweet clover over near an old stone wall .
It was the same stone wall in which Johnny Chuck had escaped from old Whitetail the Marshhawk , when Johnny was a very little fellow .
Suddenly Polly gave a little scream of fright .
Johnny Chuck looked up to see a dog almost upon her .
Johnny 's first thought was to run to the old stone wall .
He was nearer to it than Polly was .
Then he saw that that dreadful dog would catch Polly before she could reach the stone wall .
A great rage filled Johnny 's heart , just as it had when he had fought the old gray Chuck .
Every hair stood on end , not with fear , but with anger , and he sprang in front of Polly .
`` Run , Polly , run ! ''
he cried , and Polly ran .
But Johnny did n't run .
Oh , my , no !
Johnny did n't run .
He drew himself together ready to spring .
He showed all his sharp teeth and ground them savagely .
Little sparks of fire seemed to snap out of his eyes .
There was no sign of fear in Johnny Chuck then , not the least little bit .
Just in front of him the dog stopped and barked .
He was a little dog , a young and foolish dog , and he was terribly excited .
He barked until he almost lost his breath .
He did n't like the looks of Johnny Chuck 's sharp teeth .
So he circled around Johnny , trying to get behind him .
But Johnny turned as the dog circled , and always the little dog found those sharp teeth directly in front of him .
He barked and barked , until it seemed as if he would bark his head off .
Finally the little dog , who was young and foolish , grew tired of just dancing around and barking .
`` Pooh ! ''
said he to himself .
`` He 's nothing but a Chuck ! ''
Then he stopped barking and sprang straight at Johnny with an ugly growl .
Johnny Chuck was ready for him and he was quicker than the little dog .
His sharp teeth closed on one of the little dog 's ears , and he held on while with his stout claws he scratched and tore .
The little dog , who was young and foolish and had n't yet learned how to fight , could n't get hold of Johnny Chuck anywhere .
Then he tried to shake Johnny Chuck off , but he could n't , because Johnny held on to that ear with his sharp teeth .
`` Kiyi-yi-yi-yi ! ''
yelled the little dog , for those teeth hurt dreadfully .
`` Kiyi-yi-yi-yi ! ''
Over and over they rolled and tumbled , the little dog trying to get away , and Johnny Chuck holding on to the little dog 's ear .
Finally Johnny had to let go to get his breath .
The little dog sprang to his feet and started for home across the Green Meadows as fast as he could run .
Johnny Chuck shook himself and grinned , as he heard the little dog 's `` Kiyi-yi-yi '' grow fainter and fainter .
`` I 'm glad it was n't Bowser the Hound , '' muttered Johnny Chuck , as he started towards the old stone wall .
There he found Polly Chuck peeping out at him , and all of a tremble with fright .
`` My , how brave you are ! ''
said Polly Chuck .
`` Pooh , that 's nothing ! ''
replied Johnny Chuck .
XIII POLLY AND JOHNNY CHUCK GO HOUSE HUNTING Johnny Chuck was happy .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck was happy -- so happy that he felt like doing foolish things .
You see Johnny Chuck loved Polly Chuck and he knew now that Polly Chuck loved him .
He had known it ever since he had fought with the foolish little dog who had dared to frighten Polly Chuck .
After the fight was over , and the little dog had been sent home kiyi - yi-ing , Polly Chuck had crept out of the old stone wall where she had been hiding and snuggled up beside Johnny Chuck and looked at him as if she thought him the most wonderful Chuck in all the world , as , indeed , she did .
And Johnny had felt his heart swell and swell with happiness until it almost choked him .
So now once more Johnny Chuck began to think of a new home .
He had forgotten all about seeing the world .
All he wanted now was a new house , built just so , with a front door and a hidden back door , and big enough for two , for no more would Johnny Chuck live alone .
So , with shy little Polly Chuck by his side , he began to search for a place to make a new home .
The more he thought about it , the more Johnny wanted to build his house over by the lone elm-tree where he had first seen Polly Chuck .
It was a splendid place .
From it you could see a great way in every direction .
It would be shady on hot summer days .
It was near a great big patch of sweet clover .
It seemed to Johnny Chuck that it was the best place on all the Green Meadows .
He whispered as much to Polly Chuck .
She turned up her nose .
`` It 's too low ! ''
said she .
`` Oh ! ''
replied Johnny , and looked puzzled , for really it was one of the highest places on the Green Meadows .
`` Yes , '' said Polly , in a brisk , decided way , `` it 's altogether too low .
Probably it is wet . ''
`` Oh ! ''
said Johnny once more .
Of course he knew that it was n't wet , but if Polly did n't want to live there , he would n't say a word .
Of course not .
`` Now there 's a place right over there , '' continued Polly .
`` I think we 'll build our house right there . ''
Johnny opened his mouth to say something , but he closed it again without speaking and meekly trotted after Polly Chuck to the place she had picked out .
It was in a little hollow .
Johnny knew before he began to dig that the ground was damp , almost wet .
But if Polly wanted to live there she should , and Johnny began to dig .
By and by he stopped to rest .
Where was Polly ?
He looked this way and that way anxiously .
Just as he was getting ready to go hunt for her , she came hurrying back .
-LSB- Illustration : If Polly wanted to live there she should -RSB- `` I 've found a perfectly lovely place for our new home ! ''
she cried .
Johnny looked ruefully at the hole he had worked so hard to dig ; then he brushed the dirt from his clothes and followed her .
This time Johnny had no fault to find with the ground .
It was high and dry .
But Polly had chosen a spot close to a road that wound down across the Green Meadows .
Johnny shook his head doubtfully , but he began to dig .
This time , however , he kept one eye on Polly Chuck , and the minute he found that she was wandering off , he stopped digging and chuckled as he watched her .
It was n't long before back she came in great excitement .
She had found a better place !
So they wandered over the Green Meadows , Polly leading the way .
Johnny had learned by this time to waste no time digging .
And he had made up his mind to one thing .
What do you think it was ?
It was this : He would follow Polly until she found a place to suit him , but when she did find such a place she should n't have a chance to change her mind again .
XIV A NEW HOME AT LAST Home , no matter where it be , Or it be big or small , Is just the one place in the world That dearest is of all .
Johnny Chuck was thinking of this as he worked with might and main .
It was a new house that he was building , but already he felt that it was home , and every time he thought of it he felt a queer little tugging at his heart .
You see , while it was his home , it was Polly Chuck 's home , too , and that made it doubly dear to Johnny Chuck , even before it was finished .
And where do you think Johnny was building his new home ?
It was clear way over on the edge of Farmer Brown 's old orchard !
Yes , Sir , after all the fuss Johnny Chuck had made over any other Chuck living on the Green Meadows , and after driving the old gray Chuck back to the Old Pasture , Johnny Chuck had left the Green Meadows himself !
It was n't of his own accord that Johnny Chuck had left the Green Meadows .
No , indeed !
He loved them too well for that .
But he loved Polly Chuck more , and although he had grumbled a little , he had followed her up to the old orchard , and now they were going to stay there .
Sometimes Johnny shivered when he thought how near were Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound .
He had never been so far from his old home on the Green Meadows before , and it was all very strange up here .
It was very lovely , too .
Besides , it was in this very old orchard that Polly Chuck had been born , and she knew every part of it .
Johnny felt better when he found that out .
So he set to work to build a home , and this time he meant business .
Polly Chuck could change her mind as many times as she pleased ; that was going to be their home and that was where they were going to live .
Now Johnny Chuck had grown wise in the ways of the world since he first ran away from the home where he was born .
Twice since then he had built a new home , and now this would be better than either of the others .
He paid no heed to Polly , when she pouted because he did not dig where she wanted him to .
He went from tree to tree , big old apple - trees they were , and at the very last tree , way down in a corner near a tumbled-down stone wall , he found what he wanted -- two spreading roots gave him a chance to dig between them .
Polly watched him get ready for work and she pouted some more .
`` It would be a lot nicer out in that grassy place , and a lot easier to dig , '' said she .
Johnny Chuck smiled and made the dirt fly .
`` It certainly would be easier to dig , '' said he , when he stopped for breath , `` easier for me and easier for Bowser the Hound or for old Granny Fox , if either wanted to dig us out .
Now , these old roots are just far enough apart for us to go in and out .
They make a beautiful doorway .
But Bowser the Hound can not get through if he tries , and he ca n't make our doorway any larger .
Do n't you see how safe it is ? ''
Polly Chuck had to own up that it was safer than a home in the open could possibly be , and Johnny went on digging .
He made a long hall down to the snuggest of bedrooms , deep , deep down under ground .
Then he made a long back hall , and all the sand from this he carried out the front way .
By and by he made a back door at the end of the back hall , and it opened right behind a big stone fallen from the old stone wall .
You would never have guessed that there was a back door there .
His new house was finished now , and Johnny Chuck and Polly Chuck sat on the door-step and watched jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills and were happy .
XV SAMMY JAY FINDS THE NEW HOME Johnny Chuck was missed from his old home on the Green Meadows .
If he had known how much he was missed , he certainly would have tried to go back for at least a call on his old neighbors .
There had been great surprise when it had been discovered that Jimmy Skunk was living in Johnny 's old house , and at first some of the little meadow people were inclined to look at Jimmy a wee bit distrustfully when he told how Johnny Chuck had given away his house .
When Johnny sent back word by the Merry Little Breezes that it was true , they believed Jimmy Skunk and forgot the unpleasant things that they had begun to hint at about him .
But they one and all thought that Johnny Chuck must be crazy .
Yes , Sir , they thought that Johnny Chuck must be crazy .
They were sure of it when the Merry Little Breezes brought word of how Johnny had started out to see the world .
But everybody was so busy about their own affairs in the beautiful bright spring-time that they could n't spend much time wondering about Johnny Chuck .
They missed him every time they passed his old house and then forgot him ; that is , most of the little meadow people did .
Peter Rabbit did n't .
Peter used to stop every day to gossip with Johnny Chuck and tell him all the news , and now that Johnny Chuck was no longer there , Peter missed him greatly .
Jimmy Skunk was always asleep or off somewhere .
Besides , he was such a traveler that he knew all the news almost as soon as Peter himself .
The Merry Little Breezes told Peter that Johnny Chuck was still on the Green Meadows , hunting for a new home , so Peter made up his mind that just as soon as Johnny got settled , Peter would hunt him up and call .
You see , he never dreamed that Johnny would leave the Green Meadows , and he thought that of course the Merry Little Breezes would tell him just where Johnny Chuck 's new house was , whenever it was built .
But there is where Peter made a mistake .
The Merry Little Breezes are the friends of all the little meadow and forest people , but they would n't be very long if they told everything that they find out .
Their merry tongues they guard full well And things they should n't never tell , For long ago they learned the way To keep a secret night and day .
And so when they found Johnny Chuck 's new house in the corner of Farmer Brown 's old orchard , they promised Johnny that they would n't tell anybody , and they did n't .
So it was a long time before any one else found out what had become of Johnny Chuck , for no one thought of looking in the corner of the old orchard .
The Merry Little Breezes used to come every day and bring Johnny Chuck the news , and he and Polly Chuck would laugh and tickle , as they thought of Peter Rabbit hunting and hunting and never finding them .
Then one morning , as Johnny Chuck sat on his door-step , half dozing in the sun with his heart filled with contentment , he happened to look up straight into two sharp eyes peering down at him from among the leaves of the apple-tree under which he had built his house .
He knew those eyes .
They were such sharp eyes that they were unpleasant .
He did n't even have to look for the blue and white coat of the owner to know who had found his snug home .
But he pretended to keep right on dozing , and pretty soon the owner of the eyes disappeared without making a sound .
`` Oh , dear , '' sighed Johnny Chuck , `` now the whole world will know where we live , for that was Sammy Jay . ''
Then his face brightened as he added : `` Anyway , he did n't see Polly Chuck , and he does n't know anything about her , so I 'll keep twice as sharp a watch as before . ''
XVI SAMMY JAY PLANS MISCHIEF Mischief may not mean to be really truly bad , But somehow it seems to make other people sad ; Does a mean unpleasant thing and tries to think it fun ; Then , alas , it runs away when trouble has begun .
Of all the little people who live in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , none is more mischievous than Sammy Jay .
It seems sometimes as if there was more mischief under that pert little cap Sammy Jay wears than in the heads of all the other little meadow and forest people put together .
When he is n't actually in mischief , Sammy Jay is planning mischief .
You see it has grown to be a habit with Sammy Jay , and habits , especially bad habits , have a way of growing and growing .
Now Sammy Jay had no quarrel with Johnny Chuck .
Oh , my , no !
He would have told you that he liked Johnny Chuck .
Everybody likes Johnny Chuck .
But just as soon as Sammy Jay found Johnny Chuck 's new house , he began to plan mischief .
He did n't really want any harm to come to Johnny Chuck , but he wanted to make Johnny uncomfortable .
That is Sammy Jay 's idea of fun -- seeing somebody else uncomfortable .
So he slipped away to a thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest to try to think of some plan to tease Johnny Chuck and make him uncomfortable .
Of course he knew that Johnny had hidden his new house in the corner of Farmer Brown 's old orchard because he wanted it to be a secret .
He did n't know why Johnny wanted it a secret and he did n't care .
If Johnny wanted it a secret , it would be fun to tell everybody about it .
As he sat wondering who he should tell first ; he saw Reddy Fox trotting down the Lone Little Path .
`` Hi , Reddy Fox ! ''
he shouted .
Reddy looked up .
`` Hello , Sammy Jay !
What have you got on your mind this morning ? ''
said Reddy .
`` Nothing much , '' replied Sammy Jay .
`` What 's the news ? ''
Reddy grinned .
`` There is n't any news , '' said he .
`` I was just going to ask you the same thing . ''
It was Sammy Jay 's turn to grin , `` Just as if I could tell you any news , Reddy Fox !
Just as if I could tell you any news ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Why , everybody knows that you are so smart that you find out everything as soon as it happens . ''
Reddy Fox felt flattered .
You know people who do a great deal of flattering themselves are often the very easiest to flatter if you know how .
Reddy pretended to be very modest ; but no one likes to be thought smart and important more than Reddy Fox does , and it pleased him greatly that Sammy Jay should think him so smart that no one could tell him any news .
Sammy knew this perfectly well , and he chuckled to himself as he watched Reddy Fox pretending to be so modest .
`` Have you called on Johnny Chuck at his new home yet ? ''
asked Sammy Jay , in the most matter-of-fact way .
`` No , '' replied Reddy , `` but I mean to , soon . ''
He said this just as if he knew all about Johnny Chuck 's new home , when all the time he had n't the remotest idea in the world where it was .
In fact he had hunted and hunted for it , but had n't found a trace of it .
And all the time Sammy Jay knew that Reddy did n't know where it was .
But Sammy did n't let on that he knew .
`` I just happened to be up in Farmer Brown 's old orchard this morning , so I thought I 'd pay Johnny Chuck a call , '' said Sammy , and chuckled as he saw Reddy 's ears prick up .
`` By the way , he thinks you do n't know where he lives now . ''
`` Huh ! ''
said Reddy Fox .
`` As if Johnny Chuck could fool me !
Well , I must be moving along .
Good-by , Sammy Jay . ''
Reddy trotted off towards the Green Meadows , but the minute he was out of sight of Sammy Jay , he turned towards Farmer Brown 's old orchard , just as Sammy Jay had known he would .
`` I guess Johnny Chuck will have a visitor , '' chuckled Sammy Jay , as he started to look for Jimmy Skunk .
XVII MORE MISCHIEF Mischief 's like a snowball Sent rolling down a hill ; With every turn it bigger grows And bigger , bigger still .
Sammy Jay had started mischief by telling Reddy Fox where Johnny Chuck 's new house was .
If you had asked him , Sammy Jay would have said that he had n't told .
All he had said was that he had happened to be up in Farmer Brown 's old orchard and so had called on Johnny Chuck in his new house .
Now Reddy Fox is very sly , oh , very sly .
He had pretended to Sammy Jay that he knew all the time where Johnny Chuck was living .
When he left Sammy Jay , he had started in the direction of the Green Meadows , just as if he had no thought of going over to Farmer Brown 's old orchard .
But Sammy Jay is just as sly as Reddy Fox .
He was n't fooled for one minute , not one little minute .
He chuckled to himself as he started to look for Jimmy Skunk .
Then he changed his mind .
`` I think I 'll go up to the old orchard myself ! ''
said Sammy Jay , and away he flew .
He got there first and hid in the top of a big apple-tree , where he could see all that went on .
It was n't long before he saw Reddy Fox steal out from the Green Forest and over to the old orchard .
Reddy was nervous , very nervous .
You see , it was broad daylight , and the old orchard was very near Farmer Brown 's house .
Reddy knew that he ought to have waited until night , but he knew that then Johnny Chuck would be fast asleep , Now , perhaps , Johnny Chuck , thinking that no one knew where he lived , would not be on watch , and he might be able to catch Johnny .
So Reddy , with one eye on Farmer Brown 's house and one eye on the watch for some sign of Johnny Chuck , stole into the old orchard .
Every few steps he would stop and look and listen .
At every little noise he would start nervously .
Then Sammy Jay would chuckle under his breath .
So Reddy Fox crept and tiptoed about through the old orchard .
Every minute he grew more nervous , and every minute he grew more disappointed , for he could find no sign of Johnny Chuck 's house .
He began to think that Sammy Jay had fooled him , and the very thought made him grind his teeth .
At last he decided to give it up .
He was down in the far corner of the old orchard , close by the old stone wall now , and he got all ready to jump over the old stone wall , when he just happened to look on the other side of the big apple-tree he was under , and there was what he was looking for -- Johnny Chuck 's new house !
Johnny Chuck was n't in sight , but there was the new house , and Johnny must be either inside or not far away .
Reddy grinned .
It was a sly , wicked , hungry grin .
He flattened himself out in the grass behind the big apple-tree .
`` I 'll give Johnny Chuck the surprise of his life ! ''
muttered Reddy Fox under his breath .
Now Sammy Jay had been watching all this time .
He knew that Johnny Chuck was safely inside his house , for Johnny had seen Reddy when he first came into the old orchard .
And Sammy knew that Johnny Chuck knew that when Reddy found that new house , he would hide just as he had done .
`` Johnny Chuck wo n't come out again to-day , and there wo n't be any excitement at all , '' thought Sammy Jay in disappointment , for he had hoped to see a fight between Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck .
Just then Sammy looked over to Farmer Brown 's house , and there was Farmer Brown 's boy getting ready to saw wood .
The imp of mischief under Sammy 's pert cap gave him an idea .
He flew over to the old apple-tree , just over Reddy 's head , and began to scream at the top of his lungs .
Farmer Brown 's boy stopped work and looked over towards the old orchard .
`` When a jay screams like that there is usually a fox around , '' he muttered , as he unfastened Bowser the Hound .
XVIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY MAKES A DISCOVERY Reddy Fox glared up at Sammy Jay .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
snarled Reddy Fox .
`` Why do n't you mind your own affairs , instead of making trouble for other people ? ''
You see , Reddy was afraid that Johnny Chuck would hear Sammy Jay and take warning .
`` Hello , Reddy Fox !
I thought you had gone down to the Green Meadows ! ''
Sammy said this as if he was very much surprised to see Reddy there .
He was n't , for you know he had been watching Reddy hunt for Johnny Chuck 's new house , but Reddy had pretended that he was going down to the Green Meadows early that morning , and so now Sammy pretended that he had thought that Reddy really had gone .
`` I changed my mind ! ''
he snapped .
`` What are you screaming so for ? ''
`` Just to exercise my lungs , so as to be sure that I can scream when I want to , '' replied Sammy , screaming still louder .
`` Well , go somewhere else and scream ; I want to sleep , '' said Reddy crossly .
Now Sammy Jay knew perfectly well that Reddy Fox had no thought of taking a nap but was hiding there to try to catch Johnny Chuck .
And Sammy knew that Farmer Brown 's boy could hear him scream , and that he knew that when Sammy screamed that way it meant there was a fox about .
Sitting in the top of the apple-tree , Sammy could see Farmer Brown 's boy starting for the old orchard , with Bowser the Hound running ahead of him .
Farmer Brown 's boy had no gun , so Sammy knew that no harm would come to Reddy , but that Reddy would get a dreadful scare ; and that is what Sammy wanted , just out of pure mischief .
So he screamed louder than ever .
Reddy Fox lost his temper .
He sat up and called Sammy Jay all the bad names he could think of .
He forgot where he was .
He told Sammy Jay what he thought of him and what he would do to him if ever he caught him .
Sammy Jay kept right on screaming .
He made such a noise that Reddy did n't hear footsteps coming nearer and nearer .
Suddenly there was a great roar right behind him .
`` Bow , wow , wow !
Bow , wow , wow , wow ! ''
-- just like that .
Reddy was so frightened that he did n't even look to see where he was jumping , and bumped his head against the apple-tree .
Then he started for the Green Forest , with Bowser the Hound at his heels .
Sammy Jay laughed till he lost his breath and nearly tumbled off his perch .
Then he flew away , still laughing .
He thought it the greatest joke ever .
Farmer Brown 's boy had followed Bowser the Hound into the old orchard .
`` I wonder what a fox was doing up here in broad daylight , '' said he , talking to himself .
`` Perhaps one of my hens has stolen her nest down here , and he has found it .
I 'll have a look , anyway . ''
So he walked on down to the far corner of the old orchard , straight to the place from which he had seen Reddy Fox jump .
When he got there , of course he saw Johnny Chuck 's new house right away .
`` Ho ! ''
cried Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Brer Fox was hunting Chucks .
I 'll keep my eye on this , and if Mr. Chuck makes any trouble in my garden , I 'll know where to catch him . ''
XIX JOHNNY CHUCK 'S PRIDE Ever since Farmer Brown 's boy and Reddy Fox had found his new house in the far corner of the old orchard , Johnny Chuck had been worried .
It was not that he was afraid for himself .
Oh , my , no !
Johnny Chuck felt perfectly able to take care of himself .
But there was Polly Chuck !
He was terribly afraid that something might happen to Polly Chuck .
You see she was not big and strong like him , and then Polly Chuck was apt to be careless .
So for a while Johnny Chuck worried a great deal .
But Reddy Fox did n't come again in daytime .
You see Bowser the Hound had given him such a scare that he did n't dare to .
He sometimes came at night and sniffed hungrily at Johnny Chuck 's doorway , but Johnny and Polly were safe inside , and this did n't trouble them a bit .
And Farmer Brown 's boy seemed to have forgotten all about the new house .
So after a while Johnny Chuck stopped worrying so much .
The fact is Johnny Chuck had something else to think about .
He had a secret .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck had a secret .
Sammy Jay came up to the old orchard almost every morning .
His sharp eyes were not long in finding out that Johnny Chuck had a secret , but try as he would he could not find out what that secret was .
Whatever it was , it made Johnny Chuck very happy .
He would come out on his doorstep and smile and sometimes give a funny little whistle of pure joy .
It puzzled Sammy Jay a great deal .
He could n't see why Johnny Chuck should be any happier than he ever was .
To be sure it was a happy time of year .
Everybody was happy , for it was spring-time , and the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , even the Old Pasture , were very lovely .
But somehow Sammy Jay felt sure that it was something more than this , a secret that Johnny Chuck was keeping all to himself , that was making him so happy .
But what it was , Sammy Jay could n't imagine .
He spent so much time thinking about it and wondering what it could be , that it actually kept him out of mischief .
One morning Johnny Chuck came out , looking happier than ever .
He chuckled and chuckled as only a happy Chuck can .
Then he did foolish things .
He kicked up his heels .
He rolled over and over in the grass .
He whistled .
He even tried to sing , which is something no Chuck can do or should ever try to do .
Then suddenly he scrambled to his feet , carefully brushed his coat , and tried to look very dignified .
He strutted back and forth in front of his doorway , as if he was very proud of something .
There was pride in the very way in which he took each step .
There was pride in the very way in which he held his head .
It was too much for Sammy Jay .
`` What are you so proud about , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he demanded , in his harsh voice , `` If I did n't have a better looking coat than you 've got , I would n't put on airs ! ''
You know Sammy Jay is very proud of his own handsome blue and white coat and dearly loves to show it off .
`` It is n't that , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` Well , if it is because you think yourself so smart to hide yourself up here in the old orchard , let me tell you that I found you out long ago , and so did Reddy Fox , and Bowser the Hound , and Farmer Brown 's boy , '' sneered Sammy Jay in the most disagreeable way .
`` It is n't that , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` Well , what is it , then ? ''
snapped Sammy Jay .
`` That 's for you to find out , '' replied Johnny Chuck .
`` There 's foolish pride and silly pride and pride of low degree ; A better pride is honest pride , and that 's the pride for me . ''
And with that , Johnny Chuck disappeared in his new house .
XX SAMMY JAY UNDERSTANDS It was a beautiful morning .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had thrown his bedclothes off very early and started to climb up the sky , smiling his broadest .
Old Mother West Wind had swept his path clear of clouds .
The Merry Little Breezes , who , you know , are Mother West Wind 's children , had danced across the Green Meadows up to the old orchard , where they pelted each other with white and pink petals of apple blossoms until the ground was covered .
Each apple-tree was like a huge bouquet of loveliness .
Yes , indeed , it was very beautiful that spring morning .
Sammy Jay had gotten up almost as early as Mr. Sun and Old Mother West Wind .
As soon as he had swallowed his breakfast , he flew up to the old orchard and hid among the white and pink apple blossoms to watch for Johnny Chuck .
You see , he knew that Johnny Chuck had some sort of a secret which filled Johnny with very great pride ; but what it was Sammy Jay could n't even guess , and nothing troubles Sammy Jay quite so much as the feeling that he can not find out the secrets of other people .
So he sat very , very still among the apple blossoms and waited and watched .
By and by Johnny Chuck appeared on his doorstep .
He seemed very much excited , did Johnny Chuck .
He sat up very straight and looked this way and looked that way .
He looked up in the apple-trees , and Sammy Jay held his breath , for fear that Johnny would see him .
But Sammy was so well hidden that , bright as Johnny Chuck 's eyes are , they failed to see him .
Then Johnny Chuck actually climbed up on the old stone wall so as to see better , and he sat there a long time , looking and looking .
Sammy Jay grew impatient .
`` He seems to be terribly watchful this morning .
I never knew him to be so watchful before .
I do n't understand it , '' muttered Sammy to himself .
After a while Johnny Chuck seemed quite satisfied that there was no one about .
He hopped down from the old stone wall and scampered over to the doorway of his new house , and there he began to chatter .
Sammy Jay stretched his neck until it ached , trying to hear what Johnny Chuck was saying , but he could n't because Johnny 's head was inside his doorway .
Pretty soon Johnny Chuck backed out and sat up , and he looked very proud and important .
Then Sammy Jay saw something that nearly took his breath away .
It was the head of Polly Chuck peeping out of the doorway .
It was the first time that he had seen Polly Chuck .
`` Why , '' gasped Sammy Jay , `` it must be that Johnny Chuck has a mate , and I did n't know a thing about it !
So that 's his secret and the reason he has appeared so proud lately ! ''
Polly Chuck came out on the doorstep .
She looked just as proud as Johnny Chuck , and at the same time she seemed terribly anxious .
She sat up beside Johnny Chuck , and she looked this way and that way , just as Johnny had .
Then she put her head in at the doorway and began to call in the softest voice .
In a minute Sammy Jay saw something more .
It surprised him so that he nearly lost his balance .
It was another head peeping out of the doorway , a head just like Johnny Chuck 's , only it was a teeny-weeny one .
Then there was another and another !
Polly kept talking and talking in the softest voice , while Johnny Chuck swelled himself up until he looked as if he would burst with pride .
Sammy Jay understood now why Johnny Chuck had been so proud for the last few days .
It was because he had a family !
Sammy looked down at the three little Chucks sitting on the doorstep , trying to sit up the way Johnny Chuck sat , and they looked so funny that Sammy forgot himself and laughed right out loud .
In a flash the three little Chucks and Polly Chuck had disappeared inside the house , while Johnny Chuck looked up angrily .
He knew that his secret was a secret no longer .
XXI SAMMY JAY HAS A CHANGE OF HEART There 's no one ever quite so bad That somewhere way down deep inside A little goodness does not find A place wherein to creep and hide .
It is so with Sammy Jay .
Yes , Sir , it is so with Sammy Jay .
You may think that because Sammy Jay is vain , a trouble-maker and a thief , he is all bad .
He is n't .
There is some good in Sammy Jay , just as there is some good in everybody .
If there was n't , Old Mother Nature never , never would allow Sammy Jay to go his mischievous way through the Green Forest .
He dearly loves to get other people into all kinds of trouble , and this is one reason why nobody loves him .
But if you watch out sharp enough , you will find that hidden under that beautiful blue and white coat of his there really is some good .
You may have to look a long time for it , but sooner or later you will find it .
Johnny Chuck did .
Sammy Jay had already made a lot of trouble for Johnny Chuck .
You see he had been the first of the little forest and meadow people to find Johnny Chuck 's new house .
And then , just to make trouble for Johnny Chuck , he had told Reddy Fox about it , and after that he had called Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy over to it .
Now he had discovered Johnny Chuck 's greatest secret -- that Johnny had a family .
What a chance to make trouble now !
Sammy started for the Green Forest as fast as his wings could take him .
He would tell Reddy Fox and Redtail the Hawk .
They were very fond of young Chucks .
It would be great fun to see the fright of Johnny Chuck and his family when Reddy Fox or Redtail the Hawk appeared .
Sammy Jay chuckled wickedly as he flew .
When he reached the Green Forest and stopped in his favorite hemlock-tree to rest , he was still chuckling .
But by that time it was a different kind of a chuckle .
Yes , Sir , it was a different kind of a chuckle .
It was a better chuckle to hear .
The fact is , Sammy Jay was no longer chuckling over the thought of the trouble he could make .
He was laughing at the memory of how funny those three little baby Chucks had looked sitting up on Johnny Chuck 's doorstep and trying to do whatever Johnny Chuck did .
The more he thought about it , the more he tickled and laughed .
Right in the midst of his laughter along came Redtail the Hawk .
Sammy Jay opened his mouth to call to Redtail and tell him about Johnny Chuck 's secret .
Then he closed it again with a snap .
`` I wo n't tell him yet , '' said Sammy to himself , `` for he might catch one of those baby Chucks , and they are such funny little fellows that that would really be too bad .
I guess I 'll wait a while . ''
And with that , off flew Sammy Jay to hunt for some other mischief .
You see , he had had a change of heart .
The little goodness way down deep inside had come out of hiding .
But of course Johnny Chuck did n't know this , and over in his new house in the far corner of the old orchard , he and Polly Chuck were worrying and worrying , for they felt sure that now every one would know their secret , and it would n't be safe for the dear little baby Chucks to so much as put their funny little noses outside the door .
XXII JOHNNY CHUCK IS KEPT BUSY Johnny Chuck is naturally lazy .
You see , Johnny has very simple tastes and usually he is contented .
He does not have to go far from his own doorstep to get all he wants to eat .
He does not have to hunt for his food , as so many of the little meadow and forest people do , and so he has a great deal of time to sit on his doorstep and watch the world go by and dream pleasant daydreams and grow fat .
Now people who do not have to work usually become lazy .
It is the easiest habit in the world to learn and the hardest to get over .
And so , because he seldom has to work , Johnny Chuck quite naturally is lazy .
But Johnny can work when there really is need of it .
No one , unless it is Digger the Badger or Miner the Mole , can dig faster than Johnny Chuck .
And when there is real need of working , Johnny works with a will .
When he was a very tiny Chuck , old Mother Chuck had taught him this : `` When work there is that must be done Do n't fret and whine and spoil the day !
The quicker that you do your work The longer time you 'll have to play . ''
Johnny never has forgotten this , and when it is really necessary that he should work , no one works harder than he does .
But he always first makes sure that it is necessary work and that he will not be wasting his time in doing foolish , unnecessary things .
And now Johnny Chuck was the busiest he had ever been in all his life .
If he felt lazy these beautiful spring days , he did n't have time to think about it .
No , Sir , he actually did n't have time to remember that he is naturally lazy .
You see , he had a family to look out for -- three babies to find sweet , tender young clover for and to teach all the things that every Chuck should know , and to watch out for , that no harm should come to them .
So Johnny Chuck was busy , so busy that he hardly had time to get enough to eat .
Every morning Johnny would come out as soon as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun began his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
He would look this way and look that way to make sure that Reddy Fox or Granny Fox or Redtail the Hawk or Bowser the Hound or any other danger was nowhere near .
And he never forgot to look up in the apple-trees to make sure that Sammy Jay was not there .
Then he would call to Polly Chuck and the three baby Chucks .
Polly Chuck would come out with a very worried air , and after her would come the three funny little baby Chucks , who would roll and tumble over each other on the doorstep .
When he thought they had played enough , Johnny Chuck would lead the way along a little private path which he had made through the grass .
After him , one behind another , would trot the three little Chucks , and behind them would march Polly Chuck , to see that none went astray .
When they reached the patch of tender , sweet , young clover , Johnny Chuck would sit up very straight and still , watching as sharp as he knew how for the least sign of danger .
When the three little stomachs were full of sweet , tender , young clover , he would proudly lead the way home again , and then as before he would sit up very straight and watch for danger , while the three baby Chucks sprawledout on the doorstep for a sun-nap .
Oh , those were busy days for Johnny Chuck , and anxious days , too !
You see he had not forgotten that Sammy Jay had found out his secret , and he had n't the least doubt in the world that Sammy Jay would tell Reddy Fox .
So , from the first thing in the morning until the very last thing at night , Johnny Chuck was on the watch for danger .
And all the time , though Johnny did n't know it , a pair of sharp eyes were watching him from a snug hiding-place in one of the old apple - trees .
Whose were they ?
Why , Sammy Jay 's , to be sure .
You see , Sammy Jay had n't told Johnny Chuck 's great secret , after all .
XXIII THE SCHOOL IN THE OLD ORCHARD Little Foxes , little Chucks , Little Squirrels , Mice and Mink , Just like little boys and girls , Go to school to learn to think .
You did n't know that , did you ?
Well , it 's a fact .
Yes , Sir , it 's a fact .
All the babies born in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or around the Smiling Pool have to go to school just as soon as they are big enough to leave their own doorsteps .
They go to the greatest school in the world , and it is called the School of Experience .
Old Mother Nature has charge of it , but the teachers usually are father and mother for the first few weeks , anyway .
After that Old Mother Nature herself gives them a few lessons , and a very stern teacher she is .
They just HAVE to learn her lessons .
If they do n't , something dreadful is almost sure to happen .
Of course Sammy Jay knew all this , because he had had to go to school when he was a little fellow .
So Sammy was not much surprised when , from his snug hiding-place in one of the old apple-trees , he discovered that there was a school in Farmer Brown 's old orchard .
Johnny Chuck was the teacher and his three baby Chucks were the pupils .
Sammy Jay was so interested in that funny little school in the old orchard that he quite forgot to think about mischief .
The very first lesson that the three little Chucks had to learn was obedience .
Johnny Chuck was very particular about that .
You see he knew that unless they learned this first of all , none of the other lessons would do them much good .
They must first learn to mind instantly , without asking questions .
Dear me , dear me , Johnny Chuck certainly did have his hands full , teaching those three little Chucks to mind !
They were such lively little chaps , and there was so much that was new and wonderful to see , that it was dreadfully hard work to sit perfectly still , just because Johnny Chuck told them to .
But if they did n't mind instantly , they were sure to have their ears soundly boxed , and sometimes were sent back to the house without a taste of the sweet , tender , young clover of which they were so fond .
After a few lessons of this kind , they found out that it was always best to obey instantly , and then Johnny began to teach them other things , things which it is very important that every Chuck should know .
First , there were signals .
When Johnny whistled a certain way , it meant `` A stranger in sight ; possible danger ! ''
Then each little Chuck would sit up very straight and not move the teeniest , weeniest bit , so that from a little distance they looked for all the world like tiny stumps .
But all the time their sharp little eyes would be looking this way and that way , to see what the danger might be .
After a while Johnny would give another little whistle , which meant `` Danger past . ''
Then they would once more begin to fill their little stomachs with sweet , tender , young clover .
Sometimes , however , Johnny would whistle sharply .
That meant `` Run ! ''
Then they would scamper as fast as they could along the nearest little path to the house under the old apple-tree in the far corner , and never once look around .
They would dive head first , one after the other , in at the doorway , and not show their noses outside again until Johnny or Polly Chuck told them they could .
Then there was a still different whistle .
It meant `` Danger very near ; lie low ! ''
When they heard that , they flattened themselves right down in the grass just wherever they happened to be , and held their breath and did n't move until Johnny signaled that they might .
Of course , there never was any real danger .
Johnny was just teaching them , so that when danger did come , as it surely would , sooner or later , they would know just what to do .
It surely was a funny little school , and sometimes Sammy Jay had hard work to keep from laughing right out .
XXIV SAMMY JAY PROVES THAT HE IS NOT ALL BAD Sammy Jay had n't had so much fun for a long time as he found in watching the funny little school in Farmer Brown 's old orchard , where Johnny Chuck was teaching his three baby Chucks the things that every little Chuck must learn , if he would grow up into a big Chuck .
When they had learned to mind without waiting to ask why , and had learned the signals which told them just what to do when danger was near , Johnny began to lead them farther and farther away from home .
He took them up along the old stone wall and showed them how to find safe hiding-places among the stones .
Then he took them off a little way and suddenly gave the danger signal .
It was funny , very funny indeed to see the three little Chucks scamper for the old stone wall and crawl out of sight .
The first time , two of them tried to squeeze into the same hole together , and each was in such a hurry that he would n't let the other go first .
Then both lost their tempers and they began to fight about it , quite forgetting that if there was really any danger near , they surely would come to harm .
Such a scolding as Johnny Chuck did give those two little Chucks !
Then he made them try it all over again .
Once he found a foot print which Reddy Fox had made in some soft earth during the night , and made each little Chuck smell of it , while he told them all about Reddy and old Granny Fox and how smart and sly they were and how very , very fond they were of tender young Chucks for dinner .
The three little Chucks shivered when they smelled of Reddy 's track , and the hair along their backs stood up in a way that was very funny to see .
Then Johnny Chuck took them over to the edge of the old orchard , where they could peep out over the Green Meadows .
He pointed out old Whitetail the Marshhawk , sailing back and forth over the meadows , and told them how once , when he was a little Chuck and had run away from home , old Whitetail had nearly caught him .
He told them about Farmer Brown 's boy and about Bowser the Hound and a great many other things that little Chucks should learn about .
Now all the time that Johnny Chuck was teaching these things , he was keeping the sharpest kind of a watch for danger , and there were many times when he would give the danger signal .
Then they would all lie flat down in the grass and keep perfectly still , or else scamper as fast as they could along the little paths which Johnny had made , to the safety of the snug home under the old apple-tree .
But even the most watchful are surprised sometimes .
One morning , when Johnny Chuck had led the three little Chucks farther from home than usual , Farmer Brown 's boy took it into his head to visit the old orchard .
Johnny Chuck did not see him coming .
You see , the orchard grass had grown so tall that even when he sat up his very straightest , Johnny could not always see over the top of it .
So this morning he failed to see Farmer Brown 's boy coming .
But Sammy Jay , sitting in his snug hiding-place in the top of one of the old apple-trees , saw him .
At first Sammy Jay 's sharp eyes twinkled .
There would be some fun now !
Perhaps Farmer Brown 's boy would catch one of the little Chucks !
Sammy Jay could picture to himself the fright of Johnny Chuck and the three little Chucks .
He fairly hugged himself in delight , for you know Sammy Jay dearly loves to see other people in trouble .
Then he thought of all the fun he had had watching those three little Chucks learn their lessons , and suddenly the thought of anything happening to them made Sammy Jay feel uncomfortable .
Almost without stopping to think , he screamed at the top of his lungs : `` Run , Johnny Chuck , run !
Here comes Farmer Brown 's boy ! ''
And Johnny Chuck ran .
He did n't wait to ask questions or even to look .
He started the three little Chucks ahead of him , and he nipped their heels to make them run faster .
And just in time they reached the snug house under the old apple-tree in the far corner .
Farmer Brown 's boy was just in time to see them disappear .
He watched Sammy Jay flying over to the Green Forest and screaming `` Thief !
thief ! ''
as he flew .
`` I wonder now if that jay warned those chucks purposely , '' said he , as he scratched his head thoughtfully .
If Peter Rabbit had been there , he could have told him that Sammy Jay did , for he knows all about Sammy Jay and his tricks .
But Peter was n't there .
The fact is , Peter was very busy doing the most foolish of all the foolish things he has ever done -- trying to change his name .
You may read all about it in The Adventures of Peter Cottontail .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Prigio.txt.out
CHAPTER I. -LCB- Chapter heading picture : p1.jpg -RCB- How the Fairies were not Invited to Court .
Once upon a time there reigned in Pantouflia a king and a queen .
With almost everything else to make them happy , they wanted one thing : they had no children .
This vexed the king even more than the queen , who was very clever and learned , and who had hated dolls when she was a child .
However , she , too in spite of all the books she read and all the pictures she painted , would have been glad enough to be the mother of a little prince .
The king was anxious to consult the fairies , but the queen would not hear of such a thing .
She did not believe in fairies : she said that they had never existed ; and that she maintained , though The History of the Royal Family was full of chapters about nothing else .
Well , at long and at last they had a little boy , who was generally regarded as the finest baby that had ever been seen .
Even her majesty herself remarked that , though she could never believe all the courtiers told her , yet he certainly was a fine child -- a very fine child .
Now , the time drew near for the christening party , and the king and queen were sitting at breakfast in their summer parlour talking over it .
It was a splendid room , hung with portraits of the royal ancestors .
There was Cinderella , the grandmother of the reigning monarch , with her little foot in her glass slipper thrust out before her .
There was the Marquis de Carabas , who , as everyone knows , was raised to the throne as prince consort after his marriage with the daughter of the king of the period .
On the arm of the throne was seated his celebrated cat , wearing boots .
There , too , was a portrait of a beautiful lady , sound asleep : this was Madame La Belle au Bois-dormant , also an ancestress of the royal family .
Many other pictures of celebrated persons were hanging on the walls .
`` You have asked all the right people , my dear ? ''
said the king .
`` Everyone who should be asked , '' answered the queen .
`` People are so touchy on these occasions , '' said his majesty .
`` You have not forgotten any of our aunts ? ''
`` No ; the old cats ! ''
replied the queen ; for the king 's aunts were old-fashioned , and did not approve of her , and she knew it .
`` They are very kind old ladies in their way , '' said the king ; `` and were nice to me when I was a boy . ''
Then he waited a little , and remarked : `` The fairies , of course , you have invited ?
It has always been usual , in our family , on an occasion like this ; and I think we have neglected them a little of late . ''
`` How can you be so absurd ? ''
cried the queen .
`` How often must I tell you that there are no fairies ?
And even if there were -- but , no matter ; pray let us drop the subject . ''
`` They are very old friends of our family , my dear , that 's all , '' said the king timidly .
`` Often and often they have been godmothers to us .
One , in particular , was most kind and most serviceable to Cinderella I. , my own grandmother . ''
`` Your grandmother ! ''
interrupted her majesty .
`` Fiddle-de-dee !
If anyone puts such nonsense into the head of my little Prigio -- '' But here the baby was brought in by the nurse , and the queen almost devoured it with kisses .
And so the fairies were not invited !
It was an extraordinary thing , but none of the nobles could come to the christening party when they learned that the fairies had not been asked .
Some were abroad ; several were ill ; a few were in prison among the Saracens ; others were captives in the dens of ogres .
The end of it was that the king and queen had to sit down alone , one at each end of a very long table , arrayed with plates and glasses for a hundred guests -- for a hundred guests who never came !
`` Any soup , my dear ? ''
shouted the king , through a speaking-trumpet ; when , suddenly , the air was filled with a sound like the rustling of the wings of birds .
Flitter , flitter , flutter , went the noise ; and when the queen looked up , lo and behold !
on every seat was a lovely fairy , dressed in green , each with a most interesting-looking parcel in her hand .
Do n't you like opening parcels ?
The king did , and he was most friendly and polite to the fairies .
But the queen , though she saw them distinctly , took no notice of them .
You see , she did not believe in fairies , nor in her own eyes , when she saw them .
So she talked across the fairies to the king , just as if they had not been there ; but the king behaved as politely as if they were real -- which , of course , they were .
When dinner was over , and when the nurse had brought in the baby , all the fairies gave him the most magnificent presents .
One offered a purse which could never be empty ; and one a pair of seven-leagued boots ; and another a cap of darkness , that nobody might see the prince when he put it on ; and another a wishing-cap ; and another a carpet , on which , when he sat , he was carried wherever he wished to find himself .
Another made him beautiful for ever ; and another , brave ; and another , lucky : but the last fairy of all , a cross old thing , crept up and said , `` My child , you shall be too clever ! ''
This fairy 's gift would have pleased the queen , if she had believed in it , more than anything else , because she was so clever herself .
But she took no notice at all ; and the fairies went each to her own country , and none of them stayed there at the palace , where nobody believed in them , except the king , a little .
But the queen tossed all their nice boots and caps , carpets , purses , swords , and all , away into a dark lumber-room ; for , of course , she thought that they were all nonsense , and merely old rubbish out of books , or pantomime `` properties . ''
CHAPTER II .
-LCB- Chapter heading picture : p9.jpg -RCB- Prince Prigio and his Family .
Well , the little prince grew up .
I think I 've told you that his name was Prigio -- did I not ?
Well , that was his name .
You can not think how clever he was .
He argued with his nurse as soon as he could speak , which was very soon .
He argued that he did not like to be washed , because the soap got into his eyes .
However , when he was told all about the pores of the skin , and how they could not be healthy if he was not washed , he at once ceased to resist , for he was very reasonable .
He argued with his father that he did not see why there should be kings who were rich , while beggars were poor ; and why the king -- who was a little greedy -- should have poached eggs and plum-cake at afternoon tea , while many other persons went without dinner .
The king was so surprised and hurt at these remarks that he boxed the prince 's ears , saying , `` I 'll teach you to be too clever , my lad . ''
Then he remembered the awful curse of the oldest fairy , and was sorry for the rudeness of the queen .
And when the prince , after having his ears boxed , said that `` force was no argument , '' the king went away in a rage .
-LCB- Prigio reading a book : p11.jpg -RCB- Indeed , I can not tell you how the prince was hated by all !
He would go down into the kitchen , and show the cook how to make soup .
He would visit the poor people 's cottage , and teach them how to make the beds , and how to make plum-pudding out of turnip-tops , and venison cutlets out of rusty bacon .
He showed the fencing-master how to fence , and the professional cricketer how to bowl , and instructed the rat-catcher in breeding terriers .
He set sums to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and assured the Astronomer Royal that the sun does not go round the earth -- which , for my part , I believe it does .
The young ladies of the Court disliked dancing with him , in spite of his good looks , because he was always asking , `` Have you read this ? ''
and `` Have you read that ? ''
-- and when they said they had n't , he sneered ; and when they said they had , he found them out .
He found out all his tutors and masters in the same horrid way ; correcting the accent of his French teacher , and trying to get his German tutor not to eat peas with his knife .
He also endeavoured to teach the queen-dowager , his grandmother , an art with which she had long been perfectly familiar !
In fact , he knew everything better than anybody else ; and the worst of it was that he did : and he was never in the wrong , and he always said , `` Did n't I tell you so ? ''
And , what was more , he had !
As time went on , Prince Prigio had two younger brothers , whom everybody liked .
They were not a bit clever , but jolly .
Prince Alphonso , the third son , was round , fat , good-humoured , and as brave as a lion .
Prince Enrico , the second , was tall , thin , and a little sad , but never too clever .
Both were in love with two of their own cousins -LRB- with the approval of their dear parents -RRB- ; and all the world said , `` What nice , unaffected princes they are ! ''
But Prigio nearly got the country into several wars by being too clever for the foreign ambassadors .
Now , as Pantouflia was a rich , lazy country , which hated fighting , this was very unpleasant , and did not make people love Prince Prigio any better .
CHAPTER III .
About the Firedrake .
Of all the people who did not like Prigio , his own dear papa , King Grognio , disliked him most .
For the king knew he was not clever , himself .
When he was in the counting-house , counting out his money , and when he happened to say , `` Sixteen shillings and fourteen and twopence are three pounds , fifteen , '' it made him wild to hear Prigio whisper , `` One pound , ten and twopence '' -- which , of course , it is .
And the king was afraid that Prigio would conspire , and get made king himself -- which was the last thing Prigio really wanted .
He much preferred to idle about , and know everything without seeming to take any trouble .
-LCB- The King at his desk : p15.jpg -RCB- Well , the king thought and thought .
How was he to get Prigio out of the way , and make Enrico or Alphonso his successor ?
He read in books about it ; and all the books showed that , if a king sent his three sons to do anything , it was always the youngest who did it , and got the crown .
And he wished he had the chance .
Well , it arrived at last .
There was a very hot summer !
It began to be hot in March .
All the rivers were dried up .
The grass did not grow .
The corn did not grow .
The thermometers exploded with heat .
The barometers stood at SET FAIR .
The people were much distressed , and came and broke the palace windows -- as they usually do when things go wrong in Pantouflia .
The king consulted the learned men about the Court , who told him that probably a FIREDRAKE was in the neighbourhood .
Now , the Firedrake is a beast , or bird , about the bigness of an elephant .
Its body is made of iron , and it is always red-hot .
A more terrible and cruel beast can not be imagined ; for , if you go near it , you are at once broiled by the Firedrake .
But the king was not ill-pleased : `` for , '' thought he , `` of course my three sons must go after the brute , the eldest first ; and , as usual , it will kill the first two , and be beaten by the youngest .
It is a little hard on Enrico , poor boy ; but anything to get rid of that Prigio ! ''
Then the king went to Prigio , and said that his country was in danger , and that he was determined to leave the crown to whichever of them would bring him the horns -LRB- for it has horns -RRB- and tail of the Firedrake .
`` It is an awkward brute to tackle , '' the king said , `` but you are the oldest , my lad ; go where glory waits you !
Put on your armour , and be off with you ! ''
-LCB- `` Put on your armour and be off with you ! ''
: p18.jpg -RCB- This the king said , hoping that either the Firedrake would roast Prince Prigio alive -LRB- which he could easily do , as I have said ; for he is all over as hot as a red-hot poker -RRB- , or that , if the prince succeeded , at least his country would be freed from the monster .
But the prince , who was lying on the sofa doing sums in compound division for fun , said in the politest way : `` Thanks to the education your majesty has given me , I have learned that the Firedrake , like the siren , the fairy , and so forth , is a fabulous animal which does not exist .
But even granting , for the sake of argument , that there is a Firedrake , your majesty is well aware that there is no kind of use in sending me .
It is always the eldest son who goes out first and comes to grief on these occasions , and it is always the third son that succeeds .
Send Alphonso '' -LRB- this was the youngest brother -RRB- , `` and he will do the trick at once .
At least , if he fails , it will be most unusual , and Enrico can try his luck . ''
Then he went back to his arithmetic and his slate , and the king had to send for Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico .
They both came in very warm ; for they had been whipping tops , and the day was unusually hot .
`` Look here , '' said the king , `` just you two younger ones look at Prigio !
You see how hot it is , and how coolly he takes it , and the country suffering ; and all on account of a Firedrake , you know , which has apparently built his nest not far off .
Well , I have asked that lout of a brother of yours to kill it , and he says -- '' `` That he does not believe in Firedrakes , '' interrupted Prigio .
`` The weather 's warm enough without going out hunting ! ''
`` Not believe in Firedrakes ! ''
cried Alphonso .
`` I wonder what you do believe in !
Just let me get at the creature ! ''
for he was as brave as a lion .
`` Hi !
Page , my chain-armour , helmet , lance , and buckler !
A Molinda !
A Molinda ! ''
which was his war-cry .
The page ran to get the armour ; but it was so uncommonly hot that he dropped it , and put his fingers in his mouth , crying !
-LCB- The page crying : p21.jpg -RCB- `` You had better put on flannels , Alphonso , for this kind of work , '' said Prigio .
`` And if I were you , I 'd take a light garden-engine , full of water , to squirt at the enemy . ''
`` Happy thought ! ''
said Alphonso .
`` I will ! ''
And off he went , kissed his dear Molinda , bade her keep a lot of dances for him -LRB- there was to be a dance when he had killed the Firedrake -RRB- , and then he rushed to the field !
But he never came back any more !
Everyone wept bitterly -- everyone but Prince Prigio ; for he thought it was a practical joke , and said that Alphonso had taken the opportunity to start off on his travels and see the world .
`` There is some dreadful mistake , sir , '' said Prigio to the king .
`` You know as well as I do that the youngest son has always succeeded , up to now .
But I entertain great hopes of Enrico ! ''
And he grinned ; for he fancied it was all nonsense , and that there were no Firedrakes .
Enrico was present when Prigio was consoling the king in this unfeeling way .
`` Enrico , my boy , '' said his majesty , `` the task awaits you , and the honour .
When you come back with the horns and tail of the Firedrake , you shall be crown prince ; and Prigio shall be made an usher at the Grammar School -- it is all he is fit for . ''
Enrico was not quite so confident as Alphonso had been .
He insisted on making his will ; and he wrote a poem about the pleasures and advantages of dying young .
This is part of it : The violet is a blossom sweet , That droops before the day is done -- Slain by thine overpowering heat , O Sun !
And I , like that sweet purple flower , May roast , or boil , or broil , or bake , If burned by thy terrific power , Firedrake !
This poem comforted Enrico more or less , and he showed it to Prigio .
But the prince only laughed , and said that the second line of the last verse was not very good ; for violets do not `` roast , or boil , or broil , or bake . ''
Enrico tried to improve it , but could not .
So he read it to his cousin , Lady Kathleena , just as it was ; and she cried over it -LRB- though I do n't think she understood it -RRB- ; and Enrico cried a little , too .
However , next day he started , with a spear , a patent refrigerator , and a lot of the bottles people throw at fires to put them out .
But he never came back again !
After shedding torrents of tears , the king summoned Prince Prigio to his presence .
`` Dastard ! ''
he said .
`` Poltroon !
Your turn , which should have come first , has arrived at last .
You must fetch me the horns and the tail of the Firedrake .
Probably you will be grilled , thank goodness ; but who will give me back Enrico and Alphonso ? ''
`` Indeed , your majesty , '' said Prigio , `` you must permit me to correct your policy .
Your only reason for dispatching your sons in pursuit of this dangerous but I believe fabulous animal , was to ascertain which of us would most worthily succeed to your throne , at the date -- long may it be deferred !
-- of your lamented decease .
Now , there can be no further question about the matter .
I , unworthy as I am , represent the sole hope of the royal family .
Therefore to send me after the Firedrake were -LCB- 25 -RCB- both dangerous and unnecessary .
Dangerous , because , if he treats me as you say he did my brothers -- my unhappy brothers , -- the throne of Pantouflia will want an heir .
But , if I do come back alive -- why , I can not be more the true heir than I am at present ; now can I ?
Ask the Lord Chief Justice , if you do n't believe me . ''
These arguments were so clearly and undeniably correct that the king , unable to answer them , withdrew into a solitary place where he could express himself with freedom , and give rein to his expression .
CHAPTER IV .
How Prince Prigio was Deserted by Everybody .
Meanwhile , Prince Prigio had to suffer many unpleasant things .
Though he was the crown prince -LRB- and though his arguments were unanswerable -RRB- , everybody shunned him for a coward .
The queen , who did not believe in Firedrakes , alone took his side .
He was not only avoided by all , but he had most disagreeable scenes with his own cousins , Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena .
In the garden Lady Molinda met him walking alone , and did not bow to him .
`` Dear Molly , '' said the prince , who liked her , `` how have I been so unfortunate as to offend you ? ''
`` My name , sir , is Lady Molinda , '' she said , very proudly ; `` and you have sent your own brother to his grave ! ''
`` Oh , excuse me , '' said the prince , `` I am certain he has merely gone off on his travels .
He 'll come back when he 's tired : there are no Firedrakes ; a French writer says they are ` purement fabuleux , ' purely fabulous , you know . ''
-LCB- `` My name , sir , is Lady Molinda , she said . ''
: p29.jpg -RCB- `` Prince Alphonso has gone on his travels , and will come back when he is tired !
And was he then -- tired -- of me ? ''
cried poor Molinda , bursting into tears , and forgetting her dignity .
`` Oh !
I beg your pardon , I never noticed ; I 'm sure I am very sorry , '' cried the prince , who , never having been in love himself , never thought of other people .
And he tried to take Molinda 's hand , but she snatched it from him and ran away through the garden to the palace , leaving Prince Prigio to feel foolish , for once , and ashamed .
As for Lady Kathleena , she swept past him like a queen , without a word .
So the prince , for all his cleverness , was not happy .
After several days had gone by , the king returned from the solitary place where he had been speaking his mind .
He now felt calmer and better ; and so at last he came back to the palace .
But on seeing Prince Prigio , who was lolling in a hammock , translating Egyptian hieroglyphs into French poetry for his mother , the king broke out afresh , and made use of the most cruel and impolite expressions .
At last , he gave orders that all the Court should pack up and move to a distant city ; and that Prince Prigio should be left alone in the palace by himself .
For he was quite unendurable , the king said , and he could not trust his own temper when he thought of him .
And he grew so fierce , that even the queen was afraid of him now .
The poor queen cried a good deal ; Prigio being her favourite son , on account of his acknowledged ability and talent .
But the rest of the courtiers were delighted at leaving Prince Prigio behind .
For his part , he , very good-naturedly , showed them the best and shortest road to Falkenstein , the city where they were going ; and easily proved that neither the chief secretary for geography , nor the general of the army , knew anything about the matter -- which , indeed , they did not .
The ungrateful courtiers left Prigio with hoots and yells , for they disliked him so much that they forgot he would be king one day .
He therefore reminded them of this little fact in future history , which made them feel uncomfortable enough , and then lay down in his hammock and went to sleep .
When he wakened , the air was cold and the day was beginning to grow dark .
Prince Prigio thought he would go down and dine at a tavern in the town , for no servants had been left with him .
But what was his annoyance when he found that his boots , his sword , his cap , his cloak -- all his clothes , in fact , except those he wore , -- had been taken away by the courtiers , merely to spite him !
His wardrobe had been ransacked , and everything that had not been carried off had been cut up , burned , and destroyed .
Never was such a spectacle of wicked mischief .
It was as if hay had been made of everything he possessed .
What was worse , he had not a penny in his pocket to buy new things ; and his father had stopped his allowance of fifty thousand pounds a month .
Can you imagine anything more cruel and unjust than this conduct ?
for it was not the prince 's fault that he was so clever .
The cruel fairy had made him so .
But , even if the prince had been born clever -LRB- as may have happened to you -RRB- , was he to be blamed for that ?
The other people were just as much in fault for being born so stupid ; but the world , my dear children , can never be induced to remember this .
If you are clever , you will find it best not to let people know it -- if you want them to like you .
Well , here was the prince in a pretty plight .
Not a pound in his pocket , not a pair of boots to wear , not even a cap to cover his head from the rain ; nothing but cold meat to eat , and never a servant to answer the bell .
CHAPTER V. What Prince Prigio found in the Garret .
The prince walked from room to room of the palace ; but , unless he wrapped himself up in a curtain , there was nothing for him to wear when he went out in the rain .
At last he climbed up a turret-stair in the very oldest part of the castle , where he had never been before ; and at the very top was a little round room , a kind of garret .
The prince pushed in the door with some difficulty -- not that it was locked , but the handle was rusty , and the wood had swollen with the damp .
The room was very dark ; only the last grey light of the rainy evening came through a slit of a window , one of those narrow windows that they used to fire arrows out of in old times .
But in the dusk the prince saw a heap of all sorts of things lying on the floor and on the table .
There were two caps ; he put one on -- an old , grey , ugly cap it was , made of felt .
There was a pair of boots ; and he kicked off his slippers , and got into them .
They were a good deal worn , but fitted as if they had been made for him .
On the table was a purse with just three gold coins -- old ones , too -- in it ; and this , as you may fancy , the prince was very well pleased to put in his pocket .
A sword , with a sword-belt , he buckled about his waist ; and the rest of the articles , a regular collection of odds and ends , he left just where they were lying .
Then he ran downstairs , and walked out of the hall door .
CHAPTER VI .
What Happened to Prince Prigio in Town .
By this time the prince was very hungry .
The town was just three miles off ; but he had such a royal appetite , that he did not like to waste it on bad cookery , and the people of the royal town were bad cooks .
`` I wish I were in ` The Bear , ' at Gluckstein , '' said he to himself ; for he remembered that there was a very good cook there .
But , then , the town was twenty-one leagues away -- sixty-three long miles !
No sooner had the prince said this , and taken just three steps , than he found himself at the door of the `` Bear Inn '' at Gluckstein !
`` This is the most extraordinary dream , '' said he to himself ; for he was far too clever , of course , to believe in seven-league boots .
Yet he had a pair on at that very moment , and it was they which had carried him in three strides from the palace to Gluckstein !
The truth is , that the prince , in looking about the palace for clothes , had found his way into that very old lumber-room where the magical gifts of the fairies had been thrown by his clever mother , who did not believe in them .
But this , of course , the prince did not know .
Now you should be told that seven-league boots only take those prodigious steps when you say you want to go a long distance .
Otherwise they would be very inconvenient -- when you only want to cross the room , for example .
Perhaps this has not been explained to you by your governess ?
Well , the prince walked into `` The Bear , '' and it seemed odd to him that nobody took any notice of him .
And yet his face was as well known as that of any man in Pantouflia , for everybody had seen it , at least in pictures .
He was so puzzled by not being attended to as usual , that he quite forgot to take off his cap .
He sat down at the table , however , and shouted '' Kellner ! ''
at which all the waiters jumped , and looked round in every direction , but nobody came to him .
At first he thought they were too busy , but presently another explanation occurred to him .
-LCB- The waiters : p38.jpg -RCB- `` The king , '' he said to himself , `` has threatened to execute anybody who speaks to me , or helps me in any way .
Well , I do n't mean to starve in the midst of plenty , anyhow ; here goes ! ''
The prince rose , and went to the table in the midst of the room , where a huge roast turkey had just been placed .
He helped himself to half the breast , some sausages , chestnut stuffing , bread sauce , potatoes , and a bottle of red wine -- Burgundy .
He then went back to a table in a corner , where he dined very well , nobody taking any notice of him .
When he had finished , he sat watching the other people dining , and smoking his cigarette .
As he was sitting thus , a very tall man , an officer in the uniform of the Guards , came in , and , walking straight to the prince 's table , said : `` Kellner , clean this table , and bring in the bill of fare . ''
With these words , the officer sat down suddenly in the prince 's lap , as if he did not see him at all .
He was a heavy man , and the prince , enraged at the insult , pushed him away and jumped to his feet .
As he did so , his cap dropped off .
The officer fell on his knees at once , crying : `` Pardon , my prince , pardon !
I never saw you ! ''
This was more than the prince could be expected to believe .
`` Nonsense !
Count Frederick von Matterhorn , '' he said ; `` you must be intoxicated .
Sir !
you have insulted your prince and your superior officer .
Consider yourself under arrest !
You shall be sent to a prison to-morrow . ''
On this , the poor officer appealed piteously to everybody in the tavern .
They all declared that they had not seen the prince , nor even had an idea that he was doing them the honour of being in the neighbourhood of their town .
More and more offended , and convinced that there was a conspiracy to annoy and insult him , the prince shouted for the landlord , called for his bill , threw down his three pieces of gold without asking for change , and went into the street .
`` It is a disgraceful conspiracy , '' he said .
`` The king shall answer for this !
I shall write to the newspapers at once ! ''
He was not put in a better temper by the way in which people hustled him in the street .
They ran against him exactly as if they did not see him , and then staggered back in the greatest surprise , looking in every direction for the person they had jostled .
In one of these encounters , the prince pushed so hard against a poor old beggar woman that she fell down .
As he was usually most kind and polite , he pulled off his cap to beg her pardon , when , behold , the beggar woman gave one dreadful scream , and fainted !
A crowd was collecting , and the prince , forgetting that he had thrown down all his money in the tavern , pulled out his purse .
Then he remembered what he had done , and expected to find it empty ; but , lo , there were three pieces of gold in it !
Overcome with surprise , he thrust the money into the woman 's hand , and put on his cap again .
In a moment the crowd , which had been staring at him , rushed away in every direction , with cries of terror , declaring that there was a magician in the town , and a fellow who could appear and disappear at pleasure !
-LCB- The crowd running : p42.jpg -RCB- By this time , you or I , or anyone who was not so extremely clever as Prince Prigio , would have understood what was the matter .
He had put on , without knowing it , not only the seven-league boots , but the cap of darkness , and had taken Fortunatus 's purse , which could never be empty , however often you took all the money out .
All those and many other delightful wares the fairies had given him at his christening , and the prince had found them in the dark garret .
But the prince was so extremely wise , and learned , and scientific , that he did not believe in fairies , nor in fairy gifts .
`` It is indigestion , '' he said to himself : `` those sausages were not of the best ; and that Burgundy was extremely strong .
Things are not as they appear . ''
Here , as he was arguing with himself , he was nearly run over by a splendid carriage and six , the driver of which never took the slightest notice of him .
Annoyed at this , the prince leaped up behind , threw down the two footmen , who made no resistance , and so was carried to the door of a magnificent palace .
He was determined to challenge the gentleman who was in the carriage ; but , noticing that he had a very beautiful young lady with him , whom he had never seen before , he followed them into the house , not wishing to alarm the girl , and meaning to speak to the gentleman when he found him alone .
A great ball was going on ; but , as usual , nobody took any notice of the prince .
He walked among the guests , being careful not to jostle them , and listening to their conversation .
It was all about himself !
Everyone had heard of his disgrace , and almost everyone cried `` Serve him right ! ''
They said that the airs he gave himself were quite unendurable -- that nothing was more rude than to be always in the right -- that cleverness might be carried far too far -- that it was better even to be born stupid -LRB- `` Like the rest of you , '' thought the prince -RRB- ; and , in fact , nobody had a good word for him .
Yes , one had !
It was the pretty lady of the carriage .
I never could tell you how pretty she was .
She was tall , with cheeks like white roses blushing : she had dark hair , and very large dark-grey eyes , and her face was the kindest in the world !
The prince first thought how nice and good she looked , even before he thought how pretty she looked .
She stood up for Prince Prigio when her partner would speak ill of him .
She had never seen the prince , for she was but newly come to Pantouflia ; but she declared that it was his misfortune , not his fault , to be so clever .
`` And , then , think how hard they made him work at school !
Besides , '' said this kind young lady , `` I hear he is extremely handsome , and very brave ; and he has a good heart , for he was kind , I have heard , to a poor boy , and did all his examination papers for him , so that the boy passed first in everything .
And now he is Minister for Education , though he ca n't do a line of Greek prose ! ''
The prince blushed at this , for he knew his conduct had not been honourable .
But he at once fell over head and ears in love with the young lady , a thing he had never done in his life before , because -- he said -- `` women were so stupid ! ''
You see he was so clever !
Now , at this very moment -- when the prince , all of a sudden , was as deep in love as if he had been the stupidest officer in the room -- an extraordinary thing happened !
Something seemed to give a whirr !
in his brain , and in one instant he knew all about it !
He believed in fairies and fairy gifts , and understood that his cap was the cap of darkness , and his shoes the seven-league boots , and his purse the purse of Fortunatus !
He had read about those things in historical books : but now he believed in them .
CHAPTER VII .
The Prince Falls in Love .
He understood all this , and burst out laughing , which nearly frightened an old lady near him out of her wits .
Ah !
how he wished he was only in evening dress , that he might dance with the charming young lady .
But there he was , dressed just as if he were going out to hunt , if anyone could have seen him .
So , even if he took off his cap of darkness , and became visible , he was no figure for a ball .
Once he would not have cared , but now he cared very much indeed .
But the prince was not clever for nothing .
He thought for a moment , then went out of the room , and , in three steps of the seven-league boots , was at his empty , dark , cold palace again .
He struck a light with a flint and steel , lit a torch , and ran upstairs to the garret .
The flaring light of the torch fell on the pile of `` rubbish , '' as the queen would have called it , which he turned over with eager hands .
Was there -- yes , there was another cap !
There it lay , a handsome green one with a red feather .
The prince pulled off the cap of darkness , put on the other , and said : '' I wish I were dressed in my best suit of white and gold , with the royal Pantouflia diamonds ! ''
In one moment there he was in white and gold , the greatest and most magnificent dandy in the whole world , and the handsomest man !
`` How about my boots , I wonder , '' said the prince ; for his seven-league boots were stout riding-boots , not good to dance in , whereas now he was in elegant shoes of silk and gold .
He threw down the wishing cap , put on the other -- the cap of darkness -- and made three strides in the direction of Gluckstein .
But he was only three steps nearer it than he had been , and the seven-league boots were standing beside him on the floor !
`` No , '' said the prince ; `` no man can be in two different pairs of boots at one and the same time !
That 's mathematics ! ''
He then hunted about in the lumber-room again till he found a small , shabby , old Persian carpet , the size of a hearthrug .
He went to his own room , took a portmanteau in his hand , sat down on the carpet , and said : `` I wish I were in Gluckstein . ''
In a moment there he found himself ; for this was that famous carpet which Prince Hussein bought long ago , in the market at Bisnagar , and which the fairies had brought , with the other presents , to the christening of Prince Prigio .
-LCB- The Prince on the carpet : p52.jpg -RCB- When he arrived at the house where the ball was going on , he put the magical carpet in the portmanteau , and left it in the cloak-room , receiving a numbered ticket in exchange .
Then he marched in all his glory -LRB- and , of course , without the cap of darkness -RRB- into the room where they were dancing .
Everybody made place for him , bowing down to the ground , and the loyal band struck up The Prince 's March !
Heaven bless our Prince Prigio !
What is there he does n't know ?
Greek , Swiss , German -LRB- High and Low -RRB- , And the names of the mountains in Mexico , Heaven bless the prince !
He used to be very fond of this march , and the words -- some people even said he had made them himself .
But now , somehow , he did n't much like it .
He went straight to the Duke of Stumpfelbahn , the Hereditary Master of the Ceremonies , and asked to be introduced to the beautiful young lady .
She was the daughter of the new English Ambassador , and her name was Lady Rosalind .
But she nearly fainted when she heard who it was that wished to dance with her , for she was not at all particularly clever ; and the prince had such a bad character for snubbing girls , and asking them difficult questions .
However , it was impossible to refuse , and so she danced with the prince , and he danced very well .
Then they sat out in the conservatory , among the flowers , where nobody came near them ; and then they danced again , and then the Prince took her down to supper .
And all the time he never once said , `` Have you read this ? ''
or `` Have you read that ? ''
or , `` What !
you never heard of Alexander the Great ? ''
or Julius Caesar , or Michael Angelo , or whoever it might be -- horrid , difficult questions he used to ask .
That was the way he used to go on : but now he only talked to the young lady about herself ; and she quite left off being shy or frightened , and asked him all about his own country , and about the Firedrake-shooting , and said how fond she was of hunting herself .
And the prince said : `` Oh , if you wish it , you shall have the horns and tail of a Firedrake to hang up in your hall , to-morrow evening ! ''
Then she asked if it was not very dangerous work , Firedrake hunting ; and he said it was nothing , when you knew the trick of it : and he asked her if she would but give him a rose out of her bouquet ; and , in short , he made himself so agreeable and unaffected , that she thought him very nice indeed .
For , even a clever person can be nice when he likes -- above all , when he is not thinking about himself .
And now the prince was thinking of nothing in the world but the daughter of the English ambassador , and how to please her .
He got introduced to her father too , and quite won his heart ; and , at last , he was invited to dine next day at the Embassy .
In Pantouflia , it is the custom that a ball must not end while one of the royal family goes on dancing .
This ball lasted till the light came in , and the birds were singing out of doors , and all the mothers present were sound asleep .
Then nothing would satisfy the prince , but that they all should go home singing through the streets ; in fact , there never had been so merry a dance in all Pantouflia .
The prince had made a point of dancing with almost every girl there : and he had suddenly become the most beloved of the royal family .
But everything must end at last ; and the prince , putting on the cap of darkness and sitting on the famous carpet , flew back to his lonely castle .
-LCB- The mothers asleep : p56.jpg -RCB- CHAPTER VIII .
The Prince is Puzzled .
Prince Prigio did not go to bed .
It was bright daylight , and he had promised to bring the horns and tail of a Firedrake as a present to a pretty lady .
He had said it was easy to do this ; but now , as he sat and thought over it , he did not feel so victorious .
`` First , '' he said , `` where is the Firedrake ? ''
He reflected for a little , and then ran upstairs to the garret .
`` It should be here ! ''
he cried , tossing the fairies ' gifts about ; `` and , by George , here it is ! ''
Indeed , he had found the spyglass of carved ivory which Prince Ali , in the Arabian Nights , bought in the bazaar in Schiraz .
Now , this glass was made so that , by looking through it , you could see anybody or anything you wished , however far away .
Prigio 's first idea was to look at his lady .
`` But she does not expect to be looked at , '' he thought ; `` and I wo n't ! ''
On the other hand , he determined to look at the Firedrake ; for , of course , he had no delicacy about spying on him , the brute .
The prince clapped the glass to his eye , stared out of window , and there , sure enough , he saw the Firedrake .
He was floating about in a sea of molten lava , on the top of a volcano .
There he was , swimming and diving for pleasure , tossing up the flaming waves , and blowing fountains of fire out of his nostrils , like a whale spouting !
The prince did not like the looks of him .
-LCB- The Prince looking through the telescope : p59.jpg -RCB- `` With all my cap of darkness , and my shoes of swiftness , and my sword of sharpness , I never could get near that beast , '' he said ; `` and if I did stalk him , I could not hurt him .
Poor little Alphonso !
poor Enrico !
what plucky fellows they were !
I fancied that there was no such thing as a Firedrake : he 's not in the Natural History books , and I thought the boys were only making fun , and would be back soon , safe and sound .
How horrid being too clever makes one !
And now , what am I to do ? ''
-LCB- The Remora : p60.jpg -RCB- What was he to do , indeed ?
And what would you have done ?
Bring the horns and tail he must , or perish in the adventure .
Otherwise , how could he meet his lady ?
-- why , she would think him a mere braggart !
The prince sat down , and thought and thought ; and the day went on , and it was now high noon .
At last he jumped up and rushed into the library , a room where nobody ever went except himself and the queen .
There he turned the books upside down , in his haste , till he found an old one , by a French gentleman , Monsieur Cyrano de Bergerac .
It was an account of a voyage to the moon , in which there is a great deal of information about matters not generally known ; for few travellers have been to the moon .
In that book , Prince Prigio fancied he would find something he half remembered , and that would be of use to him .
And he did !
So you see that cleverness , and minding your book , have some advantages , after all .
For here the prince learned that there is a very rare beast , called a Remora , which is at least as cold as the Firedrake is hot !
`` Now , '' thought he , '' if I can only make these two fight , why the Remora may kill the Firedrake , or take the heat out of him , at least , so that I may have a chance . ''
Then he seized the ivory glass , clapped it to his eye , and looked for the Remora .
Just the tip of his nose , as white as snow and as smooth as ice , was sticking out of a chink in a frozen mountain , not far from the burning mountain of the Firedrake .
`` Hooray ! ''
said the prince softly to himself ; and he jumped like mad into the winged shoes of swiftness , stuck on the cap of darkness , girdled himself with the sword of sharpness , and put a good slice of bread , with some cold tongue , in a wallet , which he slung on his back .
Never you fight , if you can help it , except with plenty of food to keep you going and in good heart .
Then off he flew , and soon he reached the volcano of the Firedrake .
CHAPTER IX .
-LCB- Chapter heading picture : p64.jpg -RCB- The Prince and the Firedrake .
It was dreadfully hot , even high up in the air , where the prince hung invisible .
Great burning stones were tossed up by the volcano , and nearly hit him several times .
Moreover , the steam and smoke , and the flames which the Firedrake spouted like foam from his nostrils , would have daunted even the bravest man .
The sides of the hill , too , were covered with the blackened ashes of his victims , whom he had roasted when they came out to kill him .
The garden-engine of poor little Alphonso was lying in the valley , all broken and useless .
But the Firedrake , as happy as a wild duck on a lonely loch , was rolling and diving in the liquid flame , all red-hot and full of frolic .
`` Hi ! ''
shouted the prince .
The Firedrake rose to the surface , his horns as red as a red crescent - moon , only bigger , and lashing the fire with his hoofs and his blazing tail .
`` Who 's there ? ''
he said in a hoarse , angry voice .
`` Just let me get at you ! ''
`` It 's me , '' answered the prince .
It was the first time he had forgotten his grammar , but he was terribly excited .
`` What do you want ? ''
grunted the beast .
`` I wish I could see you '' ; and , horrible to relate , he rose on a pair of wide , flaming wings , and came right at the prince , guided by the sound of his voice .
Now , the prince had never heard that Firedrakes could fly ; indeed , he had never believed in them at all , till the night before .
For a moment he was numb with terror ; then he flew down like a stone to the very bottom of the hill , and shouted : `` Hi ! ''
`` Well , '' grunted the Firedrake , `` what 's the matter ?
Why ca n't you give a civil answer to a civil question ? ''
`` Will you go back to your hole and swear , on your honour as a Firedrake , to listen quietly ? ''
`` On my sacred word of honour , '' said the beast , casually scorching an eagle that flew by into ashes .
The cinders fell , jingling and crackling , round the prince in a little shower .
Then the Firedrake dived back , with an awful splash of flame , and the mountain roared round him .
The prince now flew high above him , and cried : `` A message from the Remora .
He says you are afraid to fight him . ''
`` Do n't know him , '' grunted the Firedrake .
`` He sends you his glove , '' said Prince Prigio , `` as a challenge to mortal combat , till death do you part . ''
Then he dropped his own glove into the fiery lake .
`` Does he ? ''
yelled the Firedrake .
`` Just let me get at him ! ''
and he scrambled out , all red-hot as he was .
`` I 'll go and tell him you 're coming , '' said the prince ; and with two strides he was over the frozen mountain of the Remora .
CHAPTER X. The Prince and the Remora .
If he had been too warm before , the prince was too cold now .
The hill of the Remora was one solid mass of frozen steel , and the cold rushed out of it like the breath of some icy beast , which indeed it was .
All around were things like marble statues of men in armour : they were the dead bodies of the knights , horses and all , who had gone out of old to fight the Remora , and who had been frosted up by him .
The prince felt his blood stand still , and he grew faint ; but he took heart , for there was no time to waste .
Yet he could nowhere see the Remora .
`` Hi ! ''
shouted the prince .
Then , from a narrow chink at the bottom of the smooth , black hill , -- a chink no deeper than that under a door , but a mile wide , -- stole out a hideous head !
It was as flat as the head of a skate-fish , it was deathly pale , and two chill-blue eyes , dead-coloured like stones , looked out of it .
Then there came a whisper , like the breath of the bitter east wind on a winter day : `` Where are you , and how can I come to you ? ''
`` Here I am ! ''
said the prince from the top of the hill .
Then the flat , white head set itself against the edge of the chink from which it had peeped , and slowly , like the movement of a sheet of ice , it slipped upwards and curled upwards , and up , and up !
There seemed no end to it at all ; and it moved horribly , without feet , holding on by its own frost to the slippery side of the frozen hill .
Now all the lower part of the black hill was covered with the horrid white thing coiled about it in smooth , flat , shiny coils ; and still the head was higher than the rest ; and still the icy cold came nearer and nearer , like Death .
The prince almost fainted : everything seemed to swim ; and in one moment more he would have fallen stiff on the mountain-top , and the white head would have crawled over him , and the cold coils would have slipped over him and turned him to stone .
And still the thing slipped up , from the chink under the mountain .
But the prince made a great effort ; he moved , and in two steps he was far away , down in the valley where it was not so very cold .
`` Hi ! ''
he shouted , as soon as his tongue could move within his chattering teeth .
There came a clear , hissing answer , like frozen words dropping round him : `` Wait till I come down .
What do you want ? ''
Then the white folds began to slide , like melting ice , from the black hill .
Prince Prigio felt the air getting warmer behind him , and colder in front of him .
He looked round , and there were the trees beginning to blacken in the heat , and the grass looking like a sea of fire along the plains ; for the Firedrake was coming !
The prince just took time to shout , `` The Firedrake is going to pay you a visit ! ''
and then he soared to the top of a neighbouring hill , and looked on at what followed .
CHAPTER XI .
The Battle .
It was an awul sight to behold !
When the Remora heard the name of the Firedrake , his hated enemy , he slipped with wonderful speed from the cleft of the mountain into the valley .
On and on and on he poured over rock and tree , as if a frozen river could slide downhill ; on and on , till there were miles of him stretching along the valley -- miles of the smooth - ribbed , icy creature , crawling and slipping forwards .
The green trees dropped their leaves as he advanced ; the birds fell down dead from the sky , slain by his frosty breath !
But , fast as the Remora stole forward , the Firedrake came quicker yet , flying and clashing his fiery wings .
At last they were within striking distance ; and the Firedrake , stooping from the air , dashed with his burning horns and flaming feet slap into the body of the Remora .
Then there rose a steam so dreadful , such a white yet fiery vapour of heat , that no one who had not the prince 's magic glass could have seen what happened .
With horrible grunts and roars the Firedrake tried to burn his way right through the flat body of the Remora , and to chase him to his cleft in the rock .
But the Remora , hissing terribly , and visibly melting away in places , yet held his ground ; and the prince could see his cold white folds climbing slowly up the hoofs of the Firedrake -- up and up , till they reached his knees , and the great burning beast roared like a hundred bulls with the pain .
Then up the Firedrake leaped , and hovering on his fiery wings , he lighted in the midst of the Remora 's back , and dashed into it with his horns .
But the flat , cruel head writhed backwards , and , slowly bending over on itself , the wounded Remora slid greedily to fasten again on the limbs of the Firedrake .
Meanwhile , the prince , safe on his hill , was lunching on the loaf and the cold tongue he had brought with him .
`` Go it , Remora !
Go it , Firedrake !
you 're gaining .
Give it him , Remora ! ''
he shouted in the wildest excitement .
Nobody had ever seen such a battle ; he had it all to himself , and he never enjoyed anything more .
He hated the Remora so much , that he almost wished the Firedrake could beat it ; for the Firedrake was the more natural beast of the pair .
Still , he was alarmed when he saw that the vast flat body of the Remora was now slowly coiling backwards , backwards , into the cleft below the hill ; while a thick wet mist showed how cruelly it had suffered .
But the Firedrake , too , was in an unhappy way ; for his legs were now cold and black , his horns were black also , though his body , especially near the heart , glowed still like red-hot iron .
`` Go it , Remora ! ''
cried the prince : `` his legs are giving way ; he 's groggy on his pins !
One more effort , and he wo n't be able to move ! ''
Encouraged by this advice , the white , slippery Remora streamed out of his cavern again , more and more of him uncoiling , as if the mountain were quite full of him .
He had lost strength , no doubt : for the steam and mist went up from him in clouds , and the hissing of his angry voice grew fainter ; but so did the roars of the Firedrake .
Presently they sounded more like groans ; and at last the Remora slipped up his legs above the knees , and fastened on his very heart of fire .
Then the Firedrake stood groaning like a black bull , knee-deep in snow ; and still the Remora climbed and climbed .
`` Go it now , Firedrake ! ''
shouted the prince ; for he knew that if the Remora won , it would be too cold for him to draw near the place , and cut off the Firedrake 's head and tail .
`` Go it , Drake !
he 's slackening ! ''
cried the prince again ; and the brave Firedrake made one last furious effort , and rising on his wings , dropped just on the spine of his enemy .
The wounded Remora curled back his head again on himself , and again crawled , steaming terribly , towards his enemy .
But the struggle was too much for the gallant Remora .
The flat , cruel head moved slower ; the steam from his thousand wounds grew fiercer ; and he gently breathed his last just as the Firedrake , too , fell over and lay exhausted .
With one final roar , like the breath of a thousand furnaces , the Firedrake expired .
The prince , watching from the hill-top , could scarcely believe that these two awful scourges of Nature , which had so long devastated his country , were actually dead .
But when he had looked on for half-an-hour , and only a river ran where the Remora had been , while the body of the Firedrake lay stark and cold , he hurried to the spot .
Drawing the sword of sharpness , he hacked off , at two blows , the iron head and the tail of the Firedrake .
They were a weary weight to carry ; but in a few strides of the shoes of swiftness he was at his castle , where he threw down his burden , and nearly fainted with excitement and fatigue .
-LCB- The Prince in front of the Firedrake : p78.jpg -RCB- But the castle clock struck half-past seven ; dinner was at eight , and the poor prince crawled on hands and knees to the garret .
Here he put on the wishing-cap ; wished for a pint of champagne , a hot bath , and his best black velvet and diamond suit .
In a moment these were provided ; he bathed , dressed , drank a glass of wine , packed up the head and tail of the Firedrake , sat down on the flying carpet , and knocked at the door of the English ambassador as the clocks were striking eight in Gluckstein .
Punctuality is the politeness of princes !
and a prince is polite , when he is in love !
The prince was received at the door by a stout porter and led into the hall , where several butlers met him , and he laid the mortal remains of the Firedrake under the cover of the flying carpet .
Then he was led upstairs ; and he made his bow to the pretty lady , who , of course , made him a magnificent courtesy .
She seemed prettier and kinder than ever .
The prince was so happy , that he never noticed how something went wrong about the dinner .
The ambassador looked about , and seemed to miss someone , and spoke in a low voice to one of the servants , who answered also in a low voice , and what he said seemed to displease the ambassador .
But the prince was so busy in talking to his lady , and in eating his dinner too , that he never observed anything unusual .
He had never been at such a pleasant dinner !
CHAPTER XII .
A Terrible Misfortune .
When the ladies left , and the prince and the other gentlemen were alone , the ambassador appeared more gloomy than ever .
At last he took the prince into a corner , on pretence of showing him a rare statue .
`` Does your royal highness not know , '' he asked , `` that you are in considerable danger ? ''
`` Still ? ''
said the prince , thinking of the Firedrake .
The ambassador did not know what he meant , for he had never heard of the fight , but he answered gravely : `` Never more than now . ''
Then he showed the prince two proclamations , which had been posted all about the town .
-LCB- The ambassador showing the Prince the proclamation : p82.jpg -RCB- Here is the first : TO ALL LOYAL SUBJECTS .
Whereas , Our eldest son , Prince Prigio , hath of late been guilty of several high crimes and misdemeanours .
First : By abandoning the post of danger against the Firedrake , whereby our beloved sons , Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico , have perished , and been overdone by that monster .
Secondly : By attending an unseemly revel in the town of Gluckstein , where he brawled in the streets .
Thirdly : By trying to seduce away the hearts of our loyal subjects in that city , and to blow up a party against our crown and our peace .
This is to give warning , That whoever consorts with , comforts , aids , or abets the said Prince Prigio , is thereby a partner in his treason ; and That a reward of FIVE THOUSAND PURSES will be given to whomsoever brings the said prince , alive , to our Castle of Falkenstein .
GROGNIO R. And here is the second proclamation : REWARD .
THE FIREDRAKE .
Whereas , Our dominions have lately been devastated by a Firedrake -LRB- the Salamander Furiosus of Buffon -RRB- ; This is to advise all , That whosoever brings the horns and tail of the said Firedrake to our Castle of Falkenstein , shall receive FIVE THOUSAND PURSES , the position of Crown Prince , with the usual perquisites , and the hand of the king 's niece , the Lady Molinda .
GROGNIO R. `` H 'm , '' said the prince ; `` I did not think his majesty wrote so well ; '' and he would have liked to say , `` Do n't you think we might join the ladies . ''
`` But , sir , '' said the ambassador , `` the streets are lined with soldiers ; and I know not how you have escaped them .
Here , under my roof , you are safe for the moment ; but a prolonged stay -- excuse my inhospitality -- could not but strain the harmonious relations which prevail between the Government of Pantouflia and that which I have the honour to represent . ''
`` We do n't want to fight ; and no more , I think , do you , '' said the prince , smiling .
`` Then how does your royal highness mean to treat the proclamations ? ''
`` Why , by winning these ten thousand purses .
I can tell you 1,000,000 pounds is worth having , '' said the prince .
`` I 'll deliver up the said prince , alive , at Falkenstein this very night ; also the horns and tail of the said Firedrake .
But I do n't want to marry my Cousin Molly . ''
`` May I remind your royal highness that Falkenstein is three hundred miles away ?
Moreover , my head butler , Benson , disappeared from the house before dinner , and I fear he went to warn Captain Kopzoffski that you are here ! ''
`` That is nothing , '' said the prince ; `` but , my dear Lord Kelso , may I not have the pleasure of presenting Lady Rosalind with a little gift , a Philippine which I lost to her last night , merely the head and tail of a Firedrake which I stalked this morning ? ''
The ambassador was so astonished that he ran straight upstairs , forgetting his manners , and crying : `` Linda !
Linda !
come down at once ; here 's a surprise for you ! ''
Lady Rosalind came sweeping down , with a smile on her kind face .
She guessed what it was , though the prince had said nothing about it at dinner .
`` Lead the way , your royal highness ! ''
cried the ambassador ; and the prince , offering Lady Rosalind his arm , went out into the hall , where he saw neither his carpet nor the horns and tail of the Firedrake !
He turned quite pale , and said : `` Will you kindly ask the servants where the little Persian prayer-rug and the parcel which I brought with me have been placed ? ''
Lord Kelso rang the bell , and in came all the servants , with William , the under-butler , at their head .
`` William , '' said his lordship , `` where have you put his royal highness 's parcel and his carpet ? ''
`` Please , your lordship , '' said William , `` we think Benson have took them away with him . ''
`` And where is Benson ? ''
`` We do n't know , your lordship .
We think he have been come for ! ''
`` Come for -- by whom ? ''
William stammered , and seemed at a loss for a reply .
`` Quick !
answer !
what do you know about it ? ''
William said at last , rather as if he were making a speech .
`` Your royaliness , and my lords and ladies , it was like this .
His royaliness comed in with a rug over his arm , and summat under it .
And he lays it down on that there seat , and Thomas shows him into the droring - room .
Then Benson says : ` Dinner 'll be ready in five minutes ; how tired I do feel ! '
Then he takes the libbuty of sitting hisself down on his royaliness 's rug , and he says , asking your pardon , ` I 've had about enough of service here .
I 'm about tired , and I thinks of bettering myself .
I wish I was at the king 's court , and butler . '
But before the words was out of his mouth , off he flies like a shot through the open door , and his royaliness 's parcel with him .
I run to the door , and there he was , flying right hover the town , in a northerly direction .
And that 's all I know ; for I would not tell a lie , not if it was never so .
And me , and Thomas -- as did n't see it , -- and cook , we thinks as how Benson was come for .
And cook says as she do n't wonder at it , neither ; for a grumblinger , more ill-conditioneder -- '' -LCB- The Butler on the carpet : p89.jpg -RCB- `` Thank you , William , '' said Lord Kelso ; `` that will do ; you can go , for the present . ''
