I wonder to whom they belong ? '
` To your Habogi , ' replied he ; ` and some day you shall have as much milk as you like , but we can not stop now .
Do you see that big grey one , with the silver bells between her horns ?
That is to be yours , and you can have her milked every morning the moment you wake . '
And Helga 's eyes shone , and though she did not say anything , she thought that she would learn to milk the cow herself .
A mile further on they came to a wide common , with short , springy turf , where horses of all colours , with skins of satin , were kicking up their heels in play .
The sight of them so delighted Helga that she nearly sprang from her saddle with a shriek of joy .
` Whose are they ? '
Oh !
whose are they ? '
she asked .
` How happy any man must be who is the master of such lovely creatures ! '
` They are your Habogi 's , ' replied he , ` and the one which you think the most beautiful of all you shall have for yourself , and learn to ride him . '
At this Helga quite forgot the sheep and the cow . '
A horse of my own ! '
said she .
` Oh , stop one moment , and let me see which I will choose .
The white one ?
No .
The chestnut ?
No .
I think , after all , I like the coal-black one best , with the little white star on his forehead .
Oh , do stop , just for a minute . '
But Habogi would not stop or listen .
` When you are married you will have plenty of time to choose one , ' was all he answered , and they rode on two or three miles further .
At length Habogi drew rein before a small house , very ugly and mean-looking , and that seemed on the point of tumbling to pieces .
` This is my house , and is to be yours , ' said Habogi , as he jumped down and held out his arms to lift Helga from the horse .
The girl 's heart sank a little , as she thought that the man who possessed such wonderful sheep , and cows , and horses , might have built himself a prettier place to live in ; but she did not say so .
And , taking her arm , he led her up the steps .
But when she got inside , she stood quite bewildered at the beauty of all around her .
None of her friends owned such things , not even the miller , who was the richest man she knew .
There were carpets everywhere , thick and soft , and of deep rich colours ; and the cushions were of silk , and made you sleepy even to look at them ; and curious little figures in china were scattered about .
Helga felt as if it would take her all her life to see everything properly , and it only seemed a second since she had entered the house , when Habogi came up to her . '
I must begin the preparations for our wedding at once , ' he said ; ` but my foster-brother will take you home , as I promised .
In three days he will bring you back here , with your parents and sisters , and any guests you may invite , in your company .
By that time the feast will be ready . '
Helga had so much to think about , that the ride home appeared very short .
Her father and mother were delighted to see her , as they did not feel sure that so ugly and cross-looking a man as Habogi might not have played her some cruel trick .
And after they had given her some supper they begged her to tell them all she had done .
But Helga only told them that they should see for themselves on the third day , when they would come to her wedding .
It was very early in the morning when the party set out , and Helga 's two sisters grew green with envy as they passed the flocks of sheep , and cows , and horses , and heard that the best of each was given to Helga herself ; but when they caught sight of the poor little house which was to be her home their hearts grew light again . '
I should be ashamed of living in such a place , ' whispered each to the other ; and the eldest sister spoke of the carved stone over HER doorway , and the second boasted of the number of rooms SHE had .
But the moment they went inside they were struck dumb with rage at the splendour of everything , and their faces grew white and cold with fury when they saw the dress which Habogi had prepared for his bride -- a dress that glittered like sunbeams dancing upon ice .
` She SHALL not look so much finer than us , ' they cried passionately to each other as soon as they were alone ; and when night came they stole out of their rooms , and taking out the wedding-dress , they laid it in the ash-pit , and heaped ashes upon it .
But Habogi , who knew a little magic , and had guessed what they would do , changed the ashes into roses , and cast a spell over the sisters , so that they could not leave the spot for a whole day , and every one who passed by mocked at them .
The next morning when they all awoke the ugly tumble-down house had disappeared , and in its place stood a splendid palace .
The guests ' eyes sought in vain for the bridegroom , but could only see a handsome young man , with a coat of blue velvet and silver and a gold crown upon his head .
` Who is that ? '
they asked Helga .
` That is my Habogi , ' said she .
-LSB- From Neuislandischem Volksmarcher . -RSB-
How the Little Brother Set Free His Big Brothers In a small hut , right in the middle of the forest , lived a man , his wife , three sons and a daughter .
For some reason , all the animals seemed to have left that part of the country , and food grew very scarce ; so , one morning , after a night of snow , when the tracks of beasts might be easily seen , the three boys started off to hunt .
They kept together for some time , till they reached a place where the path they had been following split into two , and one of the brothers called his dog and went to the left , while the others took the trail to the right .
These had not gone far when their dogs scented a bear , and drove him out from the thicket .
The bear ran across a clearing , and the elder brother managed to place an arrow right in his head .
They both took up the bear , and carried it towards home , meeting the third at the spot where they had parted from him .
When they reached home they threw the bear down on the floor of the hut saying , ` Father , here is a bear which we killed ; now we can have some dinner . '
But the father , who was in a bad temper , only said : ` When I was a young man we used to get two bears in one day . '
The sons were rather disappointed at hearing this , and though there was plenty of meat to last for two or three days , they started off early in the morning down the same trail that they had followed before .
As they drew near the fork a bear suddenly ran out from behind a tree , and took the path on the right .
The two elder boys and their dogs pursued him , and soon the second son , who was also a good shot , killed him instantly with an arrow .
At the fork of the trail , on their way home , they met the youngest , who had taken the left-hand road , and had shot a bear for himself .
But when they threw the two bears triumphantly on the floor of the hut their father hardly looked at them , and only said : ` When I was a young man I used to get three bears in one day . '
The next day they were luckier than before , and brought back three bears , on which their father told them that HE had always killed four .
However , that did not prevent him from skinning the bears and cooking them in a way of his own , which he thought very good , and they all ate an excellent supper .
Now these bears were the servants of the great bear chief who lived in a high mountain a long way off .
And every time a bear was killed his shadow returned to the house of the bear chief , with the marks of his wounds plainly to bee seen by the rest .
The chief was furious at the number of bears the hunters had killed , and determined that he would find some way of destroying them .
So he called another of his servants , and said to him : ` Go to the thicket near the fork , where the boys killed your brothers , and directly they or the dogs see you return here as fast as ever you can .
The mountain will open to let you in , and the hunters will follow you .
Then I shall have them in my power , and be able to revenge myself . '
The servant bowed low , and started at once for the fork , where he hid himself in the bushes .
By-and-by the boys came in sight , but this time there were only two of them , as the youngest had stayed at home .
The air was warm and damp , and the snow soft and slushy , and the elder brother 's bowstring hung loose , while the bow of the younger caught in a tree and snapped in half .
At that moment the dogs began to bark loudly , and the bear rushed out of the thicket and set off in the direction of the mountain .
Without thinking that they had nothing to defend themselves with , should the bear turn and attack them , the boys gave chase .
The bear , who knew quite well that he could not be shot , sometimes slackened his pace and let the dogs get quite close ; and in this way the elder son reached the mountain without observing it , while his brother , who had hurt his foot , was still far behind .
As he ran up , the mountain opened to admit the bear , and the boy , who was close on his heels , rushed in after him , and did not know where he was till he saw bears sitting on every side of him , holding a council .
The animal he had been chasing sank panting in their midst , and the boy , very much frightened , stood still , letting his bow fall to the ground .
` Why are you trying to kill all my servants ? '
asked the chief .
` Look round and see their shades , with arrows sticking in them .
It was I who told the bear to-day how he was to lure you into my power .
I shall take care that you shall not hurt my people any more , because you will become a bear yourself . '
At this moment the second brother came up -- for the mountain had been left open on purpose to tempt him also -- and cried out breathlessly : ` Do n't you see that the bear is lying close to you ?
Why do n't you shoot him ? '
And , without waiting for a reply , pressed forward to drive his arrow into the heart of the bear .
But the elder one caught his raised arm , and whispered : ` Be quiet !
ca n't you tell where you are ? '
Then the boy looked up and saw the angry bears about him .
On the one side were the servants of the chief , and on the other the servants of the chief 's sister , who was sorry for the two youths , and begged that their lives might be spared .
The chief answered that he would not kill them , but only cast a spell over them , by which their heads and bodies should remain as they were , but their arms and legs should change into those of a bear , so that they would go on all fours for the rest of their lives .
And , stooping over a spring of water , he dipped a handful of moss in it and rubbed it over the arms and legs of the boys .
In an instant the transformation took place , and two creatures , neither beast nor human stood before the chief .
Now the bear chief of course knew that the boys ' father would seek for his sons when they did not return home , so he sent another of his servants to the hiding-place at the fork of the trail to see what would happen .
He had not waited long , when the father came in sight , stooping as he went to look for his sons ' tracks in the snow .
When he saw the marks of snow-shoes along the path on the right he was filled with joy , not knowing that the servant had made some fresh tracks on purpose to mislead him ; and he hastened forward so fast that he fell headlong into a pit , where the bear was sitting .
Before he could pick himself up the bear had quietly broken his neck , and , hiding the body under the snow , sat down to see if anyone else would pass that way .
Meanwhile the mother at home was wondering what had become of her two sons , and as the hours went on , and their father never returned , she made up her mind to go and look for him .
The youngest boy begged her to let him undertake the search , but she would not hear of it , and told him he must stay at home and take care of his sister .
So , slipping on her snow-shoes , she started on her way .
As no fresh snow had fallen , the trail was quite easy to find , and she walked straight on , till it led her up to the pit where the bear was waiting for her .
He grasped her as she fell and broke her neck , after which he laid her in the snow beside her husband , and went back to tell the bear chief .
Hour after hour dragged heavily by in the forest hut , and at last the brother and sister felt quite sure that in some way or other all the rest of the family had perished .
Day after day the boy climbed to the top of a tall tree near the house , and sat there till he was almost frozen , looking on all sides through the forest openings , hoping that he might see someone coming along .
Very soon all the food in the house was eaten , and he knew he would have to go out and hunt for more .
Besides , he wished to seek for his parents .
The little girl did not like being left alone in the hut , and cried bitterly ; but her brother told her that there was no use sitting down quietly to starve , and that whether he found any game or not he would certainly be back before the following night .
Then he cut himself some arrows , each from a different tree , and winged with the feathers of four different birds .
He then made himself a bow , very light and strong , and got down his snow-shoes .
All this took some time , and he could not start that day , but early next morning he called his little dog Redmouth , whom he kept in a box , and set out .
After he had followed the trail for a great distance he grew very tired , and sat upon the branch of a tree to rest .
But Redmouth barked so furiously that the boy thought that perhaps his parents might have been killed under its branches , and stepping back , shot one of his arrows at the root of the tree .
Whereupon a noise like thunder shook it from top to bottom , fire broke out , and in a few minutes a little heap of ashes lay in the place where it had stood .
Not knowing quite what to make of it all , the boy continued on the trail , and went down the right-hand fork till he came to the clump of bushes where the bears used to hide .
Now , as was plain by his being able to change the shape of the two brothers , the bear chief knew a good deal of magic , and he was quite aware that the little boy was following the trail , and he sent a very small but clever bear servant to wait for him in the bushes and to try to tempt him into the mountain .
But somehow his spells could not have worked properly that day , as the bear chief did not know that Redmouth had gone with his master , or he would have been more careful .
For the moment the dog ran round the bushes barking loudly , the little bear servant rushed out in a fright , and set out for the mountains as fast as he could .
The dog followed the bear , and the boy followed the dog , until the mountain , the house of the great bear chief , came in sight .
But along the road the snow was so wet and heavy that the boy could hardly get along , and then the thong of his snow-shoes broke , and he had to stop and mend it , so that the bear and the dog got so far ahead that he could scarcely hear the barking .
When the strap was firm again the boy spoke to his snow-shoes and said : ` Now you must go as fast as you can , or , if not , I shall lose the dog as well as the bear . '
And the snow-shoes sang in answer that they would run like the wind .
As he came along , the bear chief 's sister was looking out of the window , and took pity on this little brother , as she had on the two elder ones , and waited to see what the boy would do , when he found that the bear servant and the dog had already entered the mountain .
The little brother was certainly very much puzzled at not seeing anything of either of the animals , which had vanished suddenly out of his sight .
He paused for an instant to think what he should do next , and while he did so he fancied he heard Redmouth 's voice on the opposite side of the mountain .
With great difficulty he scrambled over steep rocks , and forced a path through tangled thickets ; but when he reached the other side the sound appeared to start from the place from which he had come .
Then he had to go all the way back again , and at the very top , where he stopped to rest , the barking was directly beneath him , and he knew in an instant where he was and what had happened .
` Let my dog out at once , bear chief ! '
cried he .
` If you do not , I shall destroy your palace . '
But the bear chief only laughed , and said nothing .
The boy was very angry at his silence , and aiming one of his arrows at the bottom of the mountain , shot straight through it .
As the arrow touched the ground a rumbling was heard , and with a roar a fire broke out which seemed to split the whole mountain into pieces .
The bear chief and all his servants were burnt up in the flames , but his sister and all that belonged to her were spared because she had tried to save the two elder boys from punishment .
As soon as the fire had burnt itself out the little hunter entered what was left of the mountain , and the first thing he saw was his two brothers -- half bear , half boy .
` Oh , help us !
help us ! '
cried they , standing on their hind legs as they spoke , and stretching out their fore-paws to him .
` But how am I to help you ? '
asked the little brother , almost weeping . '
I can kill people , and destroy trees and mountains , but I have no power over men . '
And the two elder brothers came up and put their paws on his shoulders , and they all three wept together .
The heart of the bear chief 's sister was moved when she saw their misery , and she came gently up behind , and whispered : ` Little boy , gather some moss from the spring over there , and let your brothers smell it . '
With a bound all three were at the spring , and as the youngest plucked a handful of wet moss , the two others sniffed at it with all their might .
Then the bearskin fell away from them , and they stood upright once more .
` How can we thank you ?
how can we thank you ? '
they stammered , hardly able to speak ; and fell at her feet in gratitude .
But the bear 's sister only smiled , and bade them go home and look after the little girl , who had no one else to protect her .
And this the boys did , and took such good care of their sister that , as she was very small , she soon forgot that she had ever had a father and mother .
-LSB- From the Bureau of Ethnology , U.S. -RSB- The Sacred Milk of Koumongoe Far way , in a very hot country , there once lived a man and woman who had two children , a son named Koane and a daughter called Thakane .
Early in the morning and late in the evenings the parents worked hard in the fields , resting , when the sun was high , under the shade of some tree .
While they were absent the little girl kept house alone , for her brother always got up before the dawn , when the air was fresh and cool , and drove out the cattle to the sweetest patches of grass he could find .
One day , when Koane had slept later than usual , his father and mother went to their work before him , and there was only Thakane to be seen busy making the bread for supper .
` Thakane , ' he said , ' I am thirsty .
Give me a drink from the tree Koumongoe , which has the best milk in the world . '
` Oh , Koane , ' cried his sister , ` you know that we are forbidden to touch that tree .
What would father say when he came home ?
For he would be sure to know . '
` Nonsense , ' replied Koane , ` there is so much milk in Koumongoe that he will never miss a little .
If you wo n't give it to me , I sha 'n' t take the cattle out .
They will just have to stay all day in the hut , and you know that they will starve . '
And he turned from her in a rage , and sat down in the corner .
After a while Thakane said to him : ` It is getting hot , had you better drive out the cattle now ? '
But Koane only answered sulkily : ' I told you I am not going to drive them out at all .
If I have to do without milk , they shall do without grass . '
Thakane did not know what to do .
She was afraid to disobey her parents , who would most likely beat her , yet the beasts would be sure to suffer if they were kept in , and she would perhaps be beaten for that too .
So at last she took an axe and a tiny earthen bowl , she cut a very small hole in the side of Koumongoe , and out gushed enough milk to fill the bowl .
` Here is the milk you wanted , ' said she , going up to Koane , who was still sulking in his corner .
` What is the use of that ? '
grumbled Koane ; ` why , there is not enough to drown a fly .
Go and get me three times as much ! '
Trembling with fright , Thakane returned to the tree , and struck it a sharp blow with the axe .
In an instant there poured forth such a stream of milk that it ran like a river into the hut .
` Koane !
Koane ! '
cried she , ` come and help me to plug up the hole .
There will be no milk left for our father and mother . '
But Koane could not stop it any more than Thakane , and soon the milk was flowing through the hut downhill towards their parents in the fields below .
The man saw a white stream a long way off , and guessed what had happened .
` Wife , wife , ' he called loudly to the woman , who was working at a little distance : ` Do you see Koumongoe running fast down the hill ?
That is some mischief of the children 's , I am sure .
I must go home and find out what is the matter . '
And they both threw down their hoes and hurried to the side of Koumongoe .
Kneeling on the grass , the man and his wife made a cup of their hands and drank the milk from it .
And no sooner had they done this , than Koumongoe flowed back again up the hill , and entered the hut .
` Thakane , ' said the parents , severely , when they reached home panting from the heat of the sun , ` what have you been doing ?
Why did Koumongoe come to us in the fields instead of staying in the garden ? '
` It was Koane 's fault , ' answered Thakane .
` He would not take the cattle to feed until he drank some of the milk from Koumongoe .
So , as I did not know what else to do , I gave it to him . '
The father listened to Thakane 's words , but made no answer .
Instead , he went outside and brought in two sheepskins , which he stained red and sent for a blacksmith to forge some iron rings .
The rings were then passed over Thakane 's arms and legs and neck , and the skins fastened on her before and behind .
When all was ready , the man sent for his servants and said : ' I am going to get rid of Thakane . '
` Get rid of your only daughter ? '
they answered , in surprise .
` But why ? '
` Because she has eaten what she ought not to have eaten .
She has touched the sacred tree which belongs to her mother and me alone . '
And , turning his back , he called to Thakane to follow him , and they went down the road which led to the dwelling of an ogre .
They were passing along some fields where the corn was ripening , when a rabbit suddenly sprang out at their feet , and standing on its hind legs , it sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You had better ask her , ' replied the man , ` she is old enough to give you an answer . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I gave Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That was why I gave him the Koumongoe of my father .
And when the rabbit heard that , he cried : ` Wretched man !
it is you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
But the father paid no heed to what the rabbit said , and only walked on the faster , bidding Thakane to keep close behind him .
By-and-by they met with a troop of great deer , called elands , and they stopped when they saw Thakane and sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You had better ask her , replied the man , ` she is old enough to give you an answer . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I gave Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That was why I gave him the Koumongoe of my father .
And the elands all cried : ` Wretched man !
it is you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
By this time it was nearly dark , and the father said they could travel no further that night , and must go to sleep where they were .
Thakane was thankful indeed when she heard this , for she was very tired , and found the two skins fastened round her almost too heavy to carry .
So , in spite of her dread of the ogre , she slept till dawn , when her father woke her , and told her roughly that he was ready to continue their journey .
Crossing the plain , the girl and her father passed a herd of gazelles feeding .
They lifted their heads , wondering who was out so early , and when they caught sight of Thakane , they sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You had better ask her , replied the man , ` she is old enough to answer for herself . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I gave Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That was why I gave him the Koumongoe of my father .
And the gazelles all cried : ` Wretched man !
it is you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
At last they arrived at the village where the ogre lived , and they went straight to his hut .
He was nowhere to be seen , but in his place was his son Masilo , who was not an ogre at all , but a very polite young man .
He ordered his servants to bring a pile of skins for Thakane to sit on , but told her father he must sit on the ground .
Then , catching sight of the girl 's face , which she had kept down , he was struck by its beauty , and put the same question that the rabbit , and the elands , and the gazelles had done .
Thakane answered him as before , and he instantly commanded that she should be taken to the hut of his mother , and placed under her care , while the man should be led to his father .
Directly the ogre saw him he bade the servant throw him into the great pot which always stood ready on the fire , and in five minutes he was done to a turn .
After that the servant returned to Masilo and related all that had happened .
Now Masilo had fallen in loved with Thakane the moment he saw her .
At first he did not know what to make of this strange feeling , for all his life he had hated women , and had refused several brides whom his parents had chosen for him .
However , they were so anxious that he should marry , that they willingly accepted Thakane as their daughter-in-law , though she did bring any marriage portion with her .
After some time a baby was born to her , and Thakane thought it was the most beautiful baby that ever was seen .
But when her mother-in-law saw it was a girl , she wrung her hands and wept , saying : ' O miserable mother !
Miserable child !
Alas for you !
why were you not a boy ! '
Thakane , in great surprise , asked the meaning of her distress ; and the old woman told her that it was the custom in that country that all the girls who were born should be given to the ogre to eat .
Then Thakane clasped the baby tightly in her arms , and cried : ` But it is not the customer in MY country !
There , when children die , they are buried in the earth .
No one shall take my baby from me . '
That night , when everyone in the hut was asleep , Thakane rose , and carrying her baby on her back , went down to a place where the river spread itself out into a large lake , with tall willows all round the bank .
Here , hidden from everyone , she sat down on a stone and began to think what she should do to save her child .
Suddenly she heard a rustling among the willows , and an old woman appeared before her .
` What are you crying for , my dear ? '
said she .
And Thakane answered : ' I was crying for my baby -- I can not hide her for ever , and if the ogre sees her , he will eat her ; and I would rather she was drowned than that . '
` What you say is true , ' replied the old woman .
` Give me your child , and let me take care of it .
And if you will fix a day to meet me here I will bring the baby . '
Then Thakane dried her eyes , and gladly accepted the old woman 's offer .
When she got home she told her husband she had thrown it in the river , and as he had watched her go in that direction he never thought of doubting what she said .
On the appointed day , Thakane slipped out when everybody was busy , and ran down the path that led to the lake .
As soon as she got there , she crouched down among the willows , and sang softly : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
And in a moment the old woman appeared holding the baby in her arms .
Dilah had become so big and strong , that Thakane 's heart was filled with joy and gratitude , and she stayed as long as she dared , playing with her baby .
At last she felt she must return to the village , lest she should be missed , and the child was handed back to the old woman , who vanished with her into the lake .
Children grow up very quickly when they live under water , and in less time than anyone could suppose , Dilah had changed from a baby to a woman .
Her mother came to visit her whenever she was able , and one day , when they were sitting talking together , they were spied out by a man who had come to cut willows to weave into baskets .
He was so surprised to see how like the face of the girl was to Masilo , that he left his work and returned to the village .
` Masilo , ' he said , as he entered the hut , ' I have just beheld your wife near the river with a girl who must be your daughter , she is so like you .
We have been deceived , for we all thought she was dead . '
When he heard this , Masilo tried to look shocked because his wife had broken the law ; but in his heart he was very glad .
` But what shall we do now ? '
asked he .
` Make sure for yourself that I am speaking the truth by hiding among the bushes the first time Thakane says she is going to bathe in the river , and waiting till the girl appears . '
For some days Thakane stayed quietly at home , and her husband began to think that the man had been mistaken ; but at last she said to her husband : ' I am going to bathe in the river . '
` Well , you can go , ' answered he .
But he ran down quickly by another path , and got there first , and hid himself in the bushes .
An instant later , Thakane arrived , and standing on the bank , she sang : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
Then the old woman came out of the water , holding the girl , now tall and slender , by the hand .
And as Masilo looked , he saw that she was indeed his daughter , and he wept for joy that she was not lying dead in the bottom of the lake .
The old woman , however , seemed uneasy , and said to Thakane : ' I feel as if someone was watching us .
I will not leave the girl to-day , but will take her back with me ' ; and sinking beneath the surface , she drew the girl after her .
After they had gone , Thakane returned to the village , which Masilo had managed to reach before her .
All the rest of the day he sat in a corner weeping , and his mother who came in asked : ` Why are you weeping so bitterly , my son ? '
` My head aches , ' he answered ; ` it aches very badly . '
And his mother passed on , and left him alone .
In the evening he said to his wife : ' I have seen my daughter , in the place where you told me you had drowned her .
Instead , she lives at the bottom of the lake , and has now grown into a young woman . ' '
I do n't know what you are talking about , ' replied Thakane . '
I buried my child under the sand on the beach . '
Then Masilo implored her to give the child back to him ; but she would not listen , and only answered : ` If I were to give her back you would only obey the laws of your country and take her to your father , the ogre , and she would be eaten . '
But Masilo promised that he would never let his father see her , and that now she was a woman no one would try to hurt her ; so Thakane 's heart melted , and she went down to the lake to consult the old woman .
` What am I to do ? '
she asked , when , after clapping her hands , the old woman appeared before her .
` Yesterday Masilo beheld Dilah , and ever since he has entreated me to give him back his daughter . '
` If I let her go he must pay me a thousand head of cattle in exchange , ' replied the old woman .
And Thakane carried her answer back to Masilo .
` Why , I would gladly give her two thousand ! '
cried he , ` for she has saved my daughter . '
And he bade messengers hasten to all the neighbouring villages , and tell his people to send him at once all the cattle he possessed .
When they were all assembled he chose a thousand of the finest bulls and cows , and drove them down to the river , followed by a great crowd wondering what would happen .
Then Thakane stepped forward in front of the cattle and sang : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
And Dilah came from the waters holding out her hands to Masilo and Thakane , and in her place the cattle sank into the lake , and were driven by the old woman to the great city filled with people , which lies at the bottom .
-LSB- Contes Populaires des Bassoutos . -RSB-
The Wicked Wolverine One day a wolverine was out walking on the hill-side , when , on turning a corner , he suddenly saw a large rock .
` Was that you I heard walking about just now ? '
he asked , for wolverines are cautious animals , and always like to know the reasons of things .
` No , certainly not , ' answered the rock ; ' I do n't know how to walk . '
` But I SAW you walking , ' continued the wolverine . '
I am afraid that you were not taught to speak the truth , ' retorted the rock .
` You need not speak like that , for I have SEEN you walking , ' replied the wolverine , ` though I am quite sure that you could never catch ME ! '
and he ran a little distance and then stopped to see if the rock was pursuing him ; but , to his vexation , the rock was still in the same place .
Then the wolverine went up close , and struck the rock a blow with his paw , saying : ` Well , will you catch me NOW ? ' '
I ca n't walk , but I can ROLL , ' answered the rock .
And the wolverine laughed and said : ` Oh , that will do just as well ' ; and began to run down the side of the mountain .
At first he went quite slowly , ` just to give the rock a chance , ' he thought to himself ; but soon he quickened his pace , for he found that the rock was almost at his heels .
But the faster the wolverine ran , the faster the rock rolled , and by-and-by the little creature began to get very tired , and was sorry he had not left the rock to itself .
Thinking that if he could manage to put on a spurt he would reach the forest of great trees at the bottom of the mountain , where the rock could not come , he gathered up all his strength , and instead of running he leaped over sticks and stones , but , whatever he did , the rock was always close behind him .
At length he grew so weary that he could not even see where he was going , and catching his foot in a branch he tripped and fell .
The rock stopped at once , but there came a shriek from the wolverine : ` Get off , get off !
ca n't you see that you are on my legs ? '
` Why did you not leave me alone ? '
asked the rock . '
I did not want to move -- I hate moving .
But you WOULD have it , and I certainly sha 'n' t move now till I am forced to . ' '
I will call my brothers , ' answered the wolverine .
` There are many of them in the forest , and you will soon see that they are stronger than you . '
And he called , and called , and called , till wolves and foxes and all sorts of other creatures all came running to see what was the matter .
` How DID you get under that rock ? '
asked they , making a ring round him ; but they had to repeat their question several times before the wolverine would answer , for he , like many other persons , found it hard to confess that he had brought his troubles on himself .
` Well , I was dull , and wanted someone to play with me , ' he said at last , in sulky voice , ` and I challenged the rock to catch me .
Of course I thought I could run the fastest ; but I tripped , and it rolled on me .
It was just an accident . '
` It serves you right for being so silly , ' said they ; but they pushed and hauled at the rock for a long time without making it move an inch .
` You are no good at all , ' cried the wolverine crossly , for it was suffering great pain , ` and if you can not get me free , I shall see what my friends the lightning and thunder can do . '
And he called loudly to the lightning to come and help him as quickly as possible .
In a few minutes a dark cloud came rolling up the sky , giving out such terrific claps of thunder that the wolves and the foxes and all the other creatures ran helter-skelter in all directions .
But , frightened though they were , they did not forget to beg the lightning to take off the wolverine 's coat and to free his legs , but to be careful not to hurt him .
So the lightning disappeared into the cloud for a moment to gather up fresh strength , and then came rushing down , right upon the rock , which it sent flying in all directions , and took the wolverine 's coat so neatly that , though it was torn into tiny shreds , the wolverine himself was quite unharmed .
` That was rather clumsy of you , ' said he , standing up naked in his flesh .
` Surely you could have split the rock without tearing my coat to bits ! '
And he stooped down to pick up the pieces .
It took him a long time , for there were a great many of them , but at last he had them all in his hand .
` I 'll go to my sister the frog , ' he thought to himself , ` and she will sew them together for me ' ; and he set off at once for the swamp in which his sister lived .
` Will you sew my coat together ?
I had an unlucky accident , and it is quite impossible to wear , ' he said , when he found her .
` With pleasure , ' she answered , for she had always been taught to be polite ; and getting her needle and thread she began to fit the pieces .
But though she was very good-natured , she was not very clever , and she got some of the bits wrong .
When the wolverine , who was very particular about his clothes , came to put it on , he grew very angry .
` What a useless creature you are ! '
cried he .
` Do you expect me to go about in such a coat as that ?
Why it bulges all down the back , as if I had a hump , and it is so tight across the chest that I expect it to burst every time I breathe .
I knew you were stupid , but I did not think you were as stupid as that . '
And giving the poor frog a blow on her head , which knocked her straight into the water , he walked off in a rage to his younger sister the mouse . '
I tore my coat this morning , ' he began , when he had found her sitting at the door of her house eating an apple .
` It was all in little bits , and I took it to our sister the frog to ask her to sew it for me .
But just look at the way she has done it !
You will have to take it to pieces and fit them together properly , and I hope I shall not have to complain again . '
For as the wolverine was older than the mouse , he was accustomed to speak to her in this manner .
However , the mouse was used to it and only answered : ' I think you had better stay here till it is done , and if there is any alteration needed I can make it . '
So the wolverine sat down on a heap of dry ferns , and picking up the apple , he finished it without even asking the mouse 's leave .
At last the coat was ready , and the wolverine put it on .
` Yes , it fits very well , ' said he , ` and you have sewn it very neatly .
When I pass this way again I will bring you a handful of corn , as a reward ' ; and he ran off as smart as ever , leaving the mouse quite grateful behind him .
He wandered about for many days , till he reached a place where food was very scarce , and for a whole week he went without any .
He was growing desperate , when he suddenly came upon a bear that was lying asleep .
` Ah !
here is food at last ! '
thought he ; but how was he to kill the bear , who was so much bigger than himself ?
It was no use to try force , he must invent some cunning plan which would get her into his power .
At last , after thinking hard , he decided upon something , and going up to the bear , he exclaimed : ` Is that you , my sister ? '
The bear turned round and saw the wolverine , and murmuring to herself , so low that nobody could hear , ' I never heard before that I had a brother , ' got up and ran quickly to a tree , up which she climbed .
Now the wolverine was very angry when he saw his dinner vanishing in front of him , especially as HE could not climb trees like the bear , so he followed , and stood at the foot of the tree , shrieking as loud as he could , ` Come down , sister ; our father has sent me to look for you !
You were lost when you were a little girl and went out picking berries , and it was only the other day that we heard from a beaver where you were . '
At these words , the bear came a little way down the tree , and the wolverine , seeing this , went on : ` Are you not fond of berries ?
I am !
And I know a place where they grow so thick the ground is quite hidden .
Why , look for yourself !
That hillside is quite red with them ! ' '
I ca n't see so far , ' answered the bear , now climbing down altogether .
` You must have wonderfully good eyes !
I wish I had ; but my sight is very short . '
` So was mine till my father smashed a pailful of cranberries , and rubbed my eyes with them , ' replied the wolverine .
` But if you like to go and gather some of the berries I will do just as he did , and you will soon be able to see as far as me . '
It took the bear a long while to gather the berries , for she was slow about everything , and , besides , it made her back ache to stoop .
But at last she returned with a sackful , and put them down beside the wolverine .
` That is splendid , sister ! '
cried the wolverine .
` Now lie flat on the ground with your head on this stone , while I smash them . '
The bear , who was very tired , was only too glad to do as she was bid , and stretched herself comfortably on the grass . '
I am ready now , ' said the wolverine after a bit ; ` just at first you will find that the berries make your eyes smart , but you must be careful not to move , or the juice will run out , and then it will have to be done all over again . '
So the bear promised to lie very still ; but the moment the cranberries touched her eyes she sprang up with a roar .
` Oh , you must n't mind a little pain , ' said the wolverine , ` it will soon be over , and then you will see all sorts of things you have never dreamt of . '
The bear sank down with a groan , and as her eyes were full of cranberry juice , which completely blinded her , the wolverine took up a sharp knife and stabbed her to the heart .
Then he took off the skin , and , stealing some fire from a tent , which his sharp eyes had perceived hidden behind a rock , he set about roasting the bear bit by bit .
He thought the meat was the best he ever had tasted , and when dinner was done he made up his mind to try that same trick again , if ever he was hungry .
And very likely he did !
-LSB- Adapted from Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
The Husband of the Rat 's Daughter Once upon a time there lived in Japan a rat and his wife who came of an old and noble race , and had one daughter , the loveliest girl in all the rat world .
Her parents were very proud of her , and spared no pains to teach her all she ought to know .
There was not another young lady in the whole town who was as clever as she was in gnawing through the hardest wood , or who could drop from such a height on to a bed , or run away so fast if anyone was heard coming .
Great attention , too , was paid to her personal appearance , and her skin shone like satin , while her teeth were as white as pearls , and beautifully pointed .
Of course , with all these advantages , her parents expected her to make a brilliant marriage , and , as she grew up , they began to look round for a suitable husband .
But here a difficulty arose .
The father was a rat from the tip of his nose to the end of his tail , outside as well as in , and desired that his daughter should wed among her own people .
She had no lack of lovers , but her father 's secret hopes rested on a fine young rat , with moustaches which almost swept the ground , whose family was still nobler and more ancient than his own .
Unluckily , the mother had other views for her precious child .
She was one of those people who always despise their own family and surroundings , and take pleasure in thinking that they themselves are made of finer material than the rest of the world .
` HER daughter should never marry a mere rat , ' she declared , holding her head high .
` With her beauty and talents she had a right to look for someone a little better than THAT . '
So she talked , as mothers will , to anyone that would listen to her .
What the girl thought about the matter nobody knew or cared -- it was not the fashion in the rat world .
Many were the quarrels which the old rat and his wife had upon the subject , and sometimes they bore on their faces certain marks which looked as if they had not kept to words only .
` Reach up to the stars is MY motto , ' cried the lady one day , when she was in a greater passion than usual .
` My daughter 's beauty places her higher than anything upon earth , ' she cried ; ` and I am certainly not going to accept a son-in-law who is beneath her . '
` Better offer her in marriage to the sun , ' answered her husband impatiently .
` As far as I know there is nothing greater than he . '
` Well , I WAS thinking of it , ' replied the wife , ` and as you are of the same mind , we will pay him a visit to-morrow . '
So the next morning , the two rats , having spent hours in making themselves smart , set out to see the sun , leading their daughter between them .
The journey took some time , but at length they came to the golden palace where the sun lived .
` Noble king , ' began the mother , ` behold our daughter !
She is so beautiful that she is above everything in the whole world .
Naturally , we wish for a son-in-law who , on his side , is greater than all .
Therefore we have come to you . ' '
I feel very much flattered , ' replied the sun , who was so busy that he had not the least wish to marry anybody .
` You do me great honour by your proposal .
Only , in one point you are mistaken , and it would be wrong of me to take advantage of your ignorance .
There is something greater than I am , and that is the cloud .
Look ! '
And as he spoke a cloud spread itself over the sun 's face , blotting out his rays .
` Oh , well , we will speak to the cloud , ' said the mother .
And turning to the cloud she repeated her proposal .
` Indeed I am unworthy of anything so charming , ' answered the cloud ; ` but you make a mistake again in what you say .
There is one thing that is even more powerful than I , and that is the wind .
Ah , here he comes , you can see for yourself . '
And she DID see , for catching up the cloud as he passed , he threw it on the other side of the sky .
Then , tumbling father , mother and daughter down to the earth again , he paused for a moment beside them , his foot on an old wall .
When she had recovered her breath , the mother began her little speech once more .
` The wall is the proper husband for your daughter , ' answered the wind , whose home consisted of a cave , which he only visited when he was not rushing about elsewhere ; ` you can see for yourself that he is greater than I , for he has power to stop me in my flight . '
And the mother , who did not trouble to conceal her wishes , turned at once to the wall .
Then something happened which was quite unexpected by everyone . '
I wo n't marry that ugly old wall , which is as old as my grandfather , ' sobbed the girl , who had not uttered one word all this time . '
I would have married the sun , or the cloud , or the wind , because it was my duty , although I love the handsome young rat , and him only .
But that horrid old wall -- I would sooner die ! '
And the wall , rather hurt in his feelings , declared that he had no claim to be the husband of so beautiful a girl .
` It is quite true , ' he said , ` that I can stop the wind who can part the clouds who can cover the sun ; but there is someone who can do more than all these , and that is the rat .
It is the rat who passes through me , and can reduce me to powder , simply with his teeth .
If , therefore , you want a son-in-law who is greater than the whole world , seek him among the rats . '
` Ah , what did I tell you ? '
cried the father .
And his wife , though for the moment angry at being beaten , soon thought that a rat son-in-law was what she had always desired .
So all three returned happily home , and the wedding was celebrated three days after .
-LSB- Contes Populaires . -RSB-
The Mermaid and the Boy Long , long ago , there lived a king who ruled over a country by the sea .
When he had been married about a year , some of his subjects , inhabiting a distant group of islands , revolted against his laws , and it became needful for him to leave his wife and go in person to settle their disputes .
The queen feared that some ill would come of it , and implored him to stay at home , but he told her that nobody could do his work for him , and the next morning the sails were spread , and the king started on his voyage .
The vessel had not gone very far when she ran upon a rock , and stuck so fast in a cleft that the strength of the whole crew could not get her off again .
To make matters worse , the wind was rising too , and it was quite plain that in a few hours the ship would be dashed to pieces and everybody would be drowned , when suddenly the form of a mermaid was seen dancing on the waves which threatened every moment to overwhelm them .
` There is only one way to free yourselves , ' she said to the king , bobbing up and down in the water as she spoke , ` and that is to give me your solemn word that you will deliver to me the first child that is born to you . '
The king hesitated at this proposal .
He hoped that some day he might have children in his home , and the thought that he must yield up the heir to his crown was very bitter to him ; but just then a huge wave broke with great force on the ship 's side , and his men fell on their knees and entreated him to save them .
So he promised , and this time a wave lifted the vessel clean off the rocks , and she was in the open sea once more .
The affairs of the islands took longer to settle than the king had expected , and some months passed away before he returned to his palace .
In his absence a son had been born to him , and so great was his joy that he quite forgot the mermaid and the price he had paid for the safety of his ship .
But as the years went on , and the baby grew into a fine big boy , the remembrance of it came back , and one day he told the queen the whole story .
From that moment the happiness of both their lives was ruined .
Every night they went to bed wondering if they should find his room empty in the morning , and every day they kept him by their sides , expecting him to be snatched away before their very eyes .
At last the king felt that this state of things could not continue , and he said to his wife : ` After all , the most foolish thing in the world one can do is to keep the boy here in exactly the place in which the mermaid will seek him .
Let us give him food and send him on his travels , and perhaps , if the mermaid ever blocs come to seek him , she may be content with some other child . '
And the queen agreed that his plan seemed the wisest .
So the boy was called , and his father told him the story of the voyage , as he had told his mother before him .
The prince listened eagerly , and was delighted to think that he was to go away all by himself to see the world , and was not in the least frightened ; for though he was now sixteen , he had scarcely been allowed to walk alone beyond the palace gardens .
He began busily to make his preparations , and took off his smart velvet coat , putting on instead one of green cloth , while he refused a beautiful bag which the queen offered him to hold his food , and slung a leather knapsack over his shoulders instead , just as he had seen other travellers do .
Then he bade farewell to his parents and went his way .
All through the day he walked , watching with interest the strange birds and animals that darted across his path in the forest or peeped at him from behind a bush .
But as evening drew on he became tired , and looked about as he walked for some place where he could sleep .
At length he reached a soft mossy bank under a tree , and was just about to stretch himself out on it , when a fearful roar made him start and tremble all over .
In another moment something passed swiftly through the air and a lion stood before him .
` What are you doing here ? '
asked the lion , his eyes glaring fiercely at the boy . '
I am flying from the mermaid , ' the prince answered , in a quaking voice .
` Give me some food then , ' said the lion , ` it is past my supper time , and I am very hungry . '
The boy was so thankful that the lion did not want to eat him , that he gladly picked up his knapsack which lay on the ground , and held out some bread and a flask of wine . '
I feel better now , ' said the lion when he had done , ` so now I shall go to sleep on this nice soft moss , and if you like you can lie down beside me . '
So the boy and the lion slept soundly side by side , till the sun rose . '
I must be off now , ' remarked the lion , shaking the boy as he spoke ; ` but cut off the tip of my ear , and keep it carefully , and if you are in any danger just wish yourself a lion and you will become one on the spot .
One good turn deserves another , you know . '
The prince thanked him for his kindness , and did as he was bid , and the two then bade each other farewell . '
I wonder how it feels to be a lion , ' thought the boy , after he had gone a little way ; and he took out the tip of the ear from the breast of his jacket and wished with all his might .
In an instant his head had swollen to several times its usual size , and his neck seemed very hot and heavy ; and , somehow , his hands became paws , and his skin grew hairy and yellow .
But what pleased him most was his long tail with a tuft at the end , which he lashed and switched proudly . '
I like being a lion very much , ' he said to himself , and trotted gaily along the road .
After a while , however , he got tired of walking in this unaccustomed way -- it made his back ache and his front paws felt sore .
So he wished himself a boy again , and in the twinkling of an eye his tail disappeared and his head shrank , and the long thick mane became short and curly .
Then he looked out for a sleeping place , and found some dry ferns , which he gathered and heaped up .
But before he had time to close his eyes there was a great noise in the trees near by , as if a big heavy body was crashing through them .
The boy rose and turned his head , and saw a huge black bear coming towards him .
` What are you doing here ? '
cried the bear . '
I am running away from the mermaid , ' answered the boy ; but the bear took no interest in the mermaid , and only said : ' I am hungry ; give me something to eat . '
The knapsack was lying on the ground among the fern , but the prince picked it up , and , unfastening the strap , took out his second flask of wine and another loaf of bread .
` We will have supper together , ' he remarked politely ; but the bear , who had never been taught manners , made no reply , and ate as fast as he could .
When he had quite finished , he got up and stretched himself .
` You have got a comfortable-looking bed there , ' he observed . '
I really think that , bad sleeper as I am , I might have a good night on it .
I can manage to squeeze you in , ' he added ; ` you do n't take up a great deal of room . '
The boy was rather indignant at the bear 's cool way of talking ; but as he was too tired to gather more fern , they lay down side by side , and never stirred till sunrise next morning . '
I must go now , ' said the bear , pulling the sleepy prince on to his feet ; ` but first you shall cut off the tip of my ear , and when you are in any danger just wish yourself a bear and you will become one .
One good turn deserves another , you know . '
And the boy did as he was bid , and he and the bear bade each other farewell . '
I wonder how it feels to be a bear , ' thought he to himself when he had walked a little way ; and he took out the tip from the breast of his coat and wished hard that he might become a bear .
The next moment his body stretched out and thick black fur covered him all over .
As before , his hands were changed into paws , but when he tried to switch his tail he found to his disgust that it would not go any distance .
` Why it is hardly worth calling a tail ! '
said he .
For the rest of the day he remained a bear and continued his journey , but as evening came on the bear-skin , which had been so useful when plunging through brambles in the forest , felt rather heavy , and he wished himself a boy again .
He was too much exhausted to take the trouble of cutting any fern or seeking for moss , but just threw himself down under a tree , when exactly above his head he heard a great buzzing as a bumble-bee alighted on a honeysuckle branch .
` What are you doing here ? '
asked the bee in a cross voice ; ` at your age you ought to be safe at home . ' '
I am running away from the mermaid , ' replied the boy ; but the bee , like the lion and the bear , was one of those people who never listen to the answers to their questions , and only said : ' I am hungry .
Give me something to eat . '
The boy took his last loaf and flask out of his knapsack and laid them on the ground , and they had supper together .
` Well , now I am going to sleep , ' observed the bee when the last crumb was gone , ` but as you are not very big I can make room for you beside me , ' and he curled up his wings , and tucked in his legs , and he and the prince both slept soundly till morning .
Then the bee got up and carefully brushed every scrap of dust off his velvet coat and buzzed loudly in the boy 's ear to waken him .
` Take a single hair from one of my wings , ' said he , ` and if you are in danger just wish yourself a bee and you will become one .
One good turn deserves another , so farewell , and thank you for your supper . '
And the bee departed after the boy had pulled out the hair and wrapped it carefully in a leaf .
` It must feel quite different to be a bee from what it does to be a lion or bear , ' thought the boy to himself when he had walked for an hour or two . '
I dare say I should get on a great deal faster , ' so he pulled out his hair and wished himself a bee .
In a moment the strangest thing happened to him .
All his limbs seemed to draw together , and his body to become very short and round ; his head grew quite tiny , and instead of his white skin he was covered with the richest , softest velvet .
Better than all , he had two lovely gauze wings which carried him the whole day without getting tired .
Late in the afternoon the boy fancied he saw a vast heap of stones a long way off , and he flew straight towards it .
But when he reached the gates he saw that it was really a great town , so he wished himself back in his own shape and entered the city .
He found the palace doors wide open and went boldly into a sort of hall which was full of people , and where men and maids were gossiping together .
He joined their talk and soon learned from them that the king had only one daughter who had such a hatred to men that she would never suffer one to enter her presence .
Her father was in despair , and had had pictures painted of the handsomest princes of all the courts in the world , in the hope that she might fall in love with one of them ; but it was no use ; the princess would not even allow the pictures to be brought into her room .
` It is late , ' remarked one of the women at last ; ' I must go to my mistress . '
And , turning to one of the lackeys , she bade him find a bed for the youth .
` It is not necessary , ' answered the prince , ` this bench is good enough for me .
I am used to nothing better . '
And when the hall was empty he lay down for a few minutes .
But as soon as everything was quiet in the palace he took out the hair and wished himself a bee , and in this shape he flew upstairs , past the guards , and through the keyhole into the princess 's chamber .
Then he turned himself into a man again .
At this dreadful sight the princess , who was broad awake , began to scream loudly . '
A man !
a man ! '
cried she ; but when the guards rushed in there was only a bumble-bee buzzing about the room .
They looked under the bed , and behind the curtains , and into the cupboards , then came to the conclusion that the princess had had a bad dream , and bowed themselves out .
The door had scarcely closed on them than the bee disappeared , and a handsome youth stood in his place . '
I knew a man was hidden somewhere , ' cried the princess , and screamed more loudly than before .
Her shrieks brought back the guards , but though they looked in all kinds of impossible places no man was to be seen , and so they told the princess .
` He was here a moment ago -- I saw him with my own eyes , ' and the guards dared not contradict her , though they shook their heads and whispered to each other that the princess had gone mad on this subject , and saw a man in every table and chair .
And they made up their minds that -- let her scream as loudly as she might -- they would take no notice .
Now the princess saw clearly what they were thinking , and that in future her guards would give her no help , and would perhaps , besides , tell some stories about her to the king , who would shut her up in a lonely tower and prevent her walking in the gardens among her birds and flowers .
So when , for the third time , she beheld the prince standing before her , she did not scream but sat up in bed gazing at him in silent terror .
` Do not be afraid , ' he said , ' I shall not hurt you ' ; and he began to praise her gardens , of which he had heard the servants speak , and the birds and flowers which she loved , till the princess 's anger softened , and she answered him with gentle words .
Indeed , they soon became so friendly that she vowed she would marry no one else , and confided to him that in three days her father would be off to the wars , leaving his sword in her room .
If any man could find it and bring it to him he would receive her hand as a reward .
At this point a cock crew , and the youth jumped up hastily saying : ` Of course I shall ride with the king to the war , and if I do not return , take your violin every evening to the seashore and play on it , so that the very sea-kobolds who live at the bottom of the ocean may hear it and come to you . '
Just as the princess had foretold , in three days the king set out for the war with a large following , and among them was the young prince , who had presented himself at court as a young noble in search of adventures .
They had left the city many miles behind them , when the king suddenly discovered that he had forgotten his sword , and though all his attendants instantly offered theirs , he declared that he could fight with none but his own .
` The first man who brings it to me from my daughter 's room , ' cried he , ` shall not only have her to wife , but after my death shall reign in my stead . '
At this the Red Knight , the young prince , and several more turned their horses to ride as fast as the wind back to the palace .
But suddenly a better plan entered the prince 's head , and , letting the others pass him , he took his precious parcel from his breast and wished himself a lion .
Then on he bounded , uttering such dreadful roars that the horses were frightened and grew unmanageable , and he easily outstripped them , and soon reached the gates of the palace .
Here he hastily changed himself into a bee , and flew straight into the princess 's room , where he became a man again .
She showed him where the sword hung concealed behind a curtain , and he took it down , saying as he did so : ` Be sure not to forget what you have promised to do . '
The princess made no reply , but smiled sweetly , and slipping a golden ring from her finger she broke it in two and held half out silently to the prince , while the other half she put in her own pocket .
He kissed it , and ran down the stairs bearing the sword with him .
Some way off he met the Red Knight and the rest , and the Red Knight at first tried to take the sword from him by force .
But as the youth proved too strong for him , he gave it up , and resolved to wait for a better opportunity .
This soon came , for the day was hot and the prince was thirsty .
Perceiving a little stream that ran into the sea , he turned aside , and , unbuckling the sword , flung himself on the ground for a long drink .
Unluckily , the mermaid happened at that moment to be floating on the water not very far off , and knew he was the boy who had been given her before he was born .
So she floated gently in to where he was lying , she seized him by the arm , and the waves closed over them both .
Hardly had they disappeared , when the Red Knight stole cautiously up , and could hardly believe his eyes when he saw the king 's sword on the bank .
He wondered what had become of the youth , who an hour before had guarded his treasure so fiercely ; but , after all , that was no affair of his !
So , fastening the sword to his belt , he carried it to the king .
The war was soon over , and the king returned to his people , who welcomed him with shouts of joy .
But when the princess from her window saw that her betrothed was not among the attendants riding behind her father , her heart sank , for she knew that some evil must have befallen him , and she feared the Red Knight .
She had long ago learned how clever and how wicked he was , and something whispered to her that it was he who would gain the credit of having carried back the sword , and would claim her as his bride , though he had never even entered her chamber .
And she could do nothing ; for although the king loved her , he never let her stand in the way of his plans .
The poor princess was only too right , and everything came to pass exactly as she had foreseen it .
The king told her that the Red Knight had won her fairly , and that the wedding would take place next day , and there would be a great feast after it .
In those days feasts were much longer and more splendid than they are now ; and it was growing dark when the princess , tired out with all she had gone through , stole up to her own room for a little quiet .
But the moon was shining so brightly over the sea that it seemed to draw her towards it , and taking her violin under her arm , she crept down to the shore .
` Listen !
listen !
said the mermaid to the prince , who was lying stretched on a bed of seaweeds at the bottom of the sea .
` Listen !
that is your old love playing , for mermaids know everything that happens upon earth . ' '
I hear nothing , ' answered the youth , who did not look happy .
` Take me up higher , where the sounds can reach me . '
So the mermaid took him on her shoulders and bore him up midway to the surface .
` Can you hear now ? '
she asked .
` No , ' answered the prince , ' I hear nothing but the water rushing ; I must go higher still . '
Then the mermaid carried him to the very top .
` You must surely be able to hear now ? '
said she .
` Nothing but the water , ' repeated the youth .
So she took him right to the land .
` At any rate you can hear now ? '
she said again .
` The water is still rushing in my ears , ' answered he ; ` but wait a little , that will soon pass off . '
And as he spoke he put his hand into his breast , and seizing the hair wished himself a bee , and flew straight into the pocket of the princess .
The mermaid looked in vain for him , and coated all night upon the sea ; but he never came back , and never more did he gladden her eyes .
But the princess felt that something strange was about her , though she knew not what , and returned quickly to the palace , where the young man at once resumed his own shape .
Oh , what joy filled her heart at the sight of him !
But there was no time to be lost , and she led him right into the hall , where the king and his nobles were still sitting at the feast .
` Here is a man who boasts that he can do wonderful tricks , ' said she , ` better even than the Red Knight 's !
That can not be true , of course , but it might be well to give this impostor a lesson .
He pretends , for instance , that he can turn himself into a lion ; but that I do not believe .
I know that you have studied the art of magic , ' she went on , turning to the Red Knight , ` so suppose you just show him how it is done , and bring shame upon him . '
Now the Red Knight had never opened a book of magic in his life ; but he was accustomed to think that he could do everything better than other people without any teaching at all .
So he turned and twisted himself about , and bellowed and made faces ; but he did not become a lion for all that .
` Well , perhaps it is very difficult to change into a lion .
Make yourself a bear , ' said the princess .
But the Red Knight found it no easier to become a bear than a lion .
` Try a bee , ' suggested she . '
I have always read that anyone who can do magic at all can do that . '
And the old knight buzzed and hummed , but he remained a man and not a bee .
` Now it is your turn , ' said the princess to the youth .
` Let us see if you can change yourself into a lion . '
And in a moment such a fierce creature stood before them , that all the guests rushed out of the hall , treading each other underfoot in their fright .
The lion sprang at the Red Knight , and would have torn him in pieces had not the princess held him back , and bidden him to change himself into a man again .
And in a second a man took the place of the lion .
` Now become a bear , ' said she ; and a bear advanced panting and stretching out his arms to the Red Knight , who shrank behind the princess .
By this time some of the guests had regained their courage , and returned as far as the door , thinking that if it was safe for the princess perhaps it was safe for them .
The king , who was braver than they , and felt it needful to set them a good example besides , had never left his seat , and when at a new command of the princess the bear once more turned into a man , he was silent from astonishment , and a suspicion of the truth began to dawn on him .
` Was it he who fetched the sword ? '
asked the king .
` Yes , it was , ' answered the princess ; and she told him the whole story , and how she had broken her gold ring and given him half of it .
And the prince took out his half of the ring , and the princess took out hers , and they fitted exactly .
Next day the Red Knight was hanged , as he richly deserved , and there was a new marriage feast for the prince and princess .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Pivi and Kabo When birds were men , and men were birds , Pivi and Kabo lived in an island far away , called New Claledonia .
Pivi was a cheery little bird that chirps at sunset ; Kabo was an ugly black fowl that croaks in the darkness .
One day Pivi and Kabo thought that they would make slings , and practice slinging , as the people of the island still do .
So they went to a banyan tree , and stripped the bark to make strings for their slings , and next they repaired to the river bank to find stones .
Kabo stood on the bank of the river , and Pivi went into the water .
The game was for Kabo to sling at Pivi , and for Pivi to dodge the stones , if he could .
For some time he dodged them cleverly , but at last a stone from Kabo 's sling hit poor Pivi on the leg and broke it .
Down went Pivi into the stream , and floated along it , till he floated into a big hollow bamboo , which a woman used for washing her sweet potatoes .
` What is that in my bamboo ? '
said the woman .
And she blew in at one end , and blew little Pivi out at the other , like a pea from a pea-shooter .
` Oh ! '
cried the woman , ` what a state you are in !
What have you been doing ? '
` It was Kabo who broke my leg at the slinging game , ' said Pivi .
` Well , I am sorry for you , ' said the woman ; ` will you come with me , and do what I tell you ? ' '
I will ! '
said Pivi , for the woman was very kind and pretty .
She took Pivi into a shed where she kept her fruit laid him on a bed of mats , and made him as comfortable as she could , and attended to his broken leg without cutting off the flesh round the bone , as these people usually do .
` You will be still , wo n't you , Pivi ? '
she said .
` If you hear a little noise you will pretend to be dead .
It is the Black Ant who will come and creep from your feet up to your head .
Say nothing , and keep quiet , wo n't you , Pivi ? '
` Certainly , kind lady , ' said Pivi , ' I will lie as still as can be . '
` Next will come the big Red Ant -- you know him ? '
` Yes , I know him , with his feet like a grasshopper 's . '
` He will walk over your body up to your head .
Then you must shake all your body .
Do you understand , Pivi ? '
` Yes , dear lady , I shall do just as you say . '
` Very good , ' said the woman , going out and shutting the door .
Pivi lay still under his coverings , then a tiny noise was heard , and the Black Ant began to march over Pivi , who lay quite still .
Then came the big Red Ant skipping along his body , and then Pivi shook himself all over .
He jumped up quite well again , he ran to the river , he looked into the water and saw that he was changed from a bird into a fine young man !
` Oh , lady , ' he cried , ` look at me now !
I am changed into a man , and so handsome ! '
` Will you obey me again ? '
said the woman .
` Always ; whatever you command I will do it , ' said Pivi , politely .
` Then climb up that cocoa-nut tree , with your legs only , not using your hands , ' said the woman .
Now the natives can run up cocoa-nut trees like squirrels , some using only one hand ; the girls can do that .
But few can climb without using their hands at all .
` At the top of the tree you will find two cocoa-nuts .
You must not throw them down , but carry them in your hands ; and you must descend as you went up , using your legs only . ' '
I shall try , at least , ' said Pivi .
And up he went , but it was very difficult , and down he came .
` Here are your cocoa-nuts , ' he said , presenting them to the woman .
` Now , Pivi , put them in the shed where you lay , and when the sun sets to cool himself in the sea and rise again not so hot in the dawn you must go and take the nuts . '
All day Pivi played about in the river , as the natives do , throwing fruit and silvery showers of water at each other .
When the sun set he went into the hut .
But as he drew near he heard sweet voices talking and laughing within .
` What is that ?
People chattering in the hut !
Perhaps they have taken my cocoa-nuts , ' said Pivi to himself .
In he went , and there he found two pretty , laughing , teasing girls .
He hunted for his cocoanuts , but none were there .
Down he ran to the river .
` Oh , lady , my nuts have been stolen ! '
he cried .
` Come with me , Pivi , and there will be nuts for you , ' said the woman .
They went back to the hut , where the girls were laughing and playing .
` Nuts for you ? '
said the woman , ` there are two wives for you , Pivi , take them to your house . '
` Oh , good lady , ' cried Pivi , ` how kind you are ! '
So they were married and very happy , when in came cross old Kabo .
` Is this Pivi ? '
said he .
` Yes , it is -- no , it is n't .
It is not the same Pivi -- but there is a kind of likeness .
Tell me , are you Pivi ? '
` Oh , yes ! '
said Pivi .
` But I am much better looking , and there are my two wives , are they not beautiful ? '
` You are mocking me , Pivi !
Your wives ?
How ?
Where did you get them ?
You , with wives ! '
Then Pivi told Kabo about the kind woman , and all the wonderful things that had happened to him .
` Well , well ! '
said Kabo , ` but I want to be handsome too , and to have pretty young wives . '
` But how can we manage that ? '
asked Pivi .
` Oh , we shall do all the same things over again -- play at slinging , and , this time , you shall break my leg , Pivi ! '
` With all the pleasure in life , ' said Pivi , who was always ready to oblige .
So they went slinging , and Pivi broke Kabo 's leg , and Kabo fell into the river , and floated into the bamboo , and the woman blew him out , just as before .
Then she picked up Kabo , and put him in the shed , and told him what to do when the Black Ant came , and what to do when the Red Ant came .
But he did n't !
When the Black Ant came , he shook himself , and behold , he had a twisted leg , and a hump back , and was as black as the ant .
Then he ran to the woman .
` Look , what a figure I am ! '
he said ; but she only told him to climb the tree , as she had told Pivi .
But Kabo climbed with both hands and feet , and he threw down the nuts , instead of carrying them down , and he put them in the hut .
And when he went back for them there he found two horrid old black hags , wrangling , and scolding , and scratching !
So back he went to Pivi with his two beautiful wives , and Pivi was very sorry , but what could he do ?
Nothing , but sit and cry .
So , one day , Kabo came and asked Pivi to sail in his canoe to a place where he knew of a great big shell-fish , enough to feed on for a week .
Pivi went , and deep in the clear water they saw a monstrous shell-fish , like an oyster , as big as a rock , with the shell wide open .
` We shall catch it , and dry it , and kipper it , ' said Pivi , ` and give a dinner to all our friends ! ' '
I shall dive for it , and break it off the rock , ' said Kabo , ` and then you must help me to drag it up into the canoe . '
There the shell-fish lay and gaped , but Kabo , though he dived in , kept well out of the way of the beast .
Up he came , puffing and blowing : ` Oh , Pivi , ' he cried , ' I can not move it .
Jump in and try yourself ! '
Pivi dived , with his spear , and the shell-fish opened its shell wider yet , and sucked , and Pivi disappeared into its mouth , and the shell shut up with a snap !
Kabo laughed like a fiend , and then went home .
` Where is Pivi ? '
asked the two pretty girls .
Kabo pretended to cry , and told how Pivi had been swallowed .
` But dry your tears , my darlings , ' said Kabo , ' I will be your husband , and my wives shall be your slaves .
Everything is for the best , in the best of all possible worlds . '
` No , no ! '
cried the girls , ` we love Pivi .
We do not love anyone else .
We shall stay at home , and weep for Pivi ! '
` Wretched idiots ! '
cried Kabo ; ` Pivi was a scoundrel who broke my leg , and knocked me into the river . '
Then a little cough was heard at the door , and Kabo trembled , for he knew it was the cough of Pivi !
` Ah , dear Pivi ! '
cried Kabo , rushing to the door .
` What joy !
I was trying to console your dear wives . '
Pivi said not one word .
He waved his hand , and five and twenty of his friends came trooping down the hill .
They cut up Kabo into little pieces .
Pivi turned round , and there was the good woman of the river .
` Pivi , ' she said , ` how did you get out of the living tomb into which Kabo sent you ? ' '
I had my spear with me , ' said Pivi .
` It was quite dry inside the shell , and I worked away at the fish with my spear , till he saw reason to open his shell , and out I came . '
Then the good woman laughed ; and Pivi and his two wives lived happy ever afterwards .
-LSB- Moncelon .
Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie .
Series iii .
vol .
ix. , pp. 613-365 . -RSB-
The Elf Maiden Once upon a time two young men living in a small village fell in love with the same girl .
During the winter , it was all night except for an hour or so about noon , when the darkness seemed a little less dark , and then they used to see which of them could tempt her out for a sleigh ride with the Northern Lights flashing above them , or which could persuade her to come to a dance in some neighbouring barn .
But when the spring began , and the light grew longer , the hearts of the villagers leapt at the sight of the sun , and a day was fixed for the boats to be brought out , and the great nets to be spread in the bays of some islands that lay a few miles to the north .
Everybody went on this expedition , and the two young men and the girl went with them .
They all sailed merrily across the sea chattering like a flock of magpies , or singing their favourite songs .
And when they reached the shore , what an unpacking there was !
For this was a noted fishing ground , and here they would live , in little wooden huts , till autumn and bad weather came round again .
The maiden and the two young men happened to share the same hut with some friends , and fished daily from the same boat .
And as time went on , one of the youths remarked that the girl took less notice of him than she did of his companion .
At first he tried to think that he was dreaming , and for a long while he kept his eyes shut very tight to what he did not want to see , but in spite of his efforts , the truth managed to wriggle through , and then the young man gave up trying to deceive himself , and set about finding some way to get the better of his rival .
The plan that he hit upon could not be carried out for some months ; but the longer the young man thought of it , the more pleased he was with it , so he made no sign of his feelings , and waited patiently till the moment came .
This was the very day that they were all going to leave the islands , and sail back to the mainland for the winter .
In the bustle and hurry of departure , the cunning fisherman contrived that their boat should be the last to put off , and when everything was ready , and the sails about to be set , he suddenly called out : ` Oh , dear , what shall I do !
I have left my best knife behind in the hut .
Run , like a good fellow , and get it for me , while I raise the anchor and loosen the tiller . '
Not thinking any harm , the youth jumped back on shore and made his way up the steep hank .
At the door of the hut he stopped and looked back , then started and gazed in horror .
The head of the boat stood out to sea , and he was left alone on the island .
Yes , there was no doubt of it -- he was quite alone ; and he had nothing to help him except the knife which his comrade had purposely dropped on the ledge of the window .
For some minutes he was too stunned by the treachery of his friend to think about anything at all , but after a while he shook himself awake , and determined that he would manage to keep alive somehow , if it were only to revenge himself .
So he put the knife in his pocket and went off to a part of the island which was not so bare as the rest , and had a small grove of trees .
From one of these he cut himself a bow , which he strung with a piece of cord that had been left lying about the huts .
When this was ready the young man ran down to the shore and shot one or two sea-birds , which he plucked and cooked for supper .
In this way the months slipped by , and Christmas came round again .
The evening before , the youth went down to the rocks and into the copse , collecting all the drift wood the sea had washed up or the gale had blown down , and he piled it up in a great stack outside the door , so that he might not have to fetch any all the next day .
As soon as his task was done , he paused and looked out towards the mainland , thinking of Christmas Eve last year , and the merry dance they had had .
The night was still and cold , and by the help of the Northern Lights he could almost sea across to the opposite coast , when , suddenly , he noticed a boat , which seemed steering straight for the island .
At first he could hardly stand for joy , the chance of speaking to another man was so delightful ; but as the boat drew near there was something , he could not tell what , that was different from the boats which he had been used to all his life , and when it touched the shore he saw that the people that filled it were beings of another world than ours .
Then he hastily stepped behind the wood stack , and waited for what might happen next .
The strange folk one by one jumped on to the rocks , each bearing a load of something that they wanted .
Among the women he remarked two young girls , more beautiful and better dressed than any of the rest , carrying between them two great baskets full of provisions .
The young man peeped out cautiously to see what all this crowd could be doing inside the tiny hut , but in a moment he drew back again , as the girls returned , and looked about as if they wanted to find out what sort of a place the island was .
Their sharp eyes soon discovered the form of a man crouching behind the bundles of sticks , and at first they felt a little frightened , and started as if they would run away .
But the youth remained so still , that they took courage and laughed gaily to each other .
` What a strange creature , let us try what he is made of , ' said one , and she stooped down and gave him a pinch .
Now the young man had a pin sticking in the sleeve of his jacket , and the moment the girl 's hand touched him she pricked it so sharply that the blood came .
The girl screamed so loudly that the people all ran out of their huts to see what was the matter .
But directly they caught sight of the man they turned and fled in the other direction , and picking up the goods they had brought with them scampered as fast as they could down to the shore .
In an instant , boat , people , and goods had vanished completely .
In their hurry they had , however , forgotten two things : a bundle of keys which lay on the table , and the girl whom the pin had pricked , and who now stood pale and helpless beside the wood stack .
` You will have to make me your wife , ' she said at last , ` for you have drawn my blood , and I belong to you . '
` Why not ?
I am quite willing , ' answered he .
` But how do you suppose we can manage to live till summer comes round again ? '
` Do not be anxious about that , ' said the girl ; ` if you will only marry me all will be well .
I am very rich , and all my family are rich also . '
Then the young man gave her his promise to make her his wife , and the girl fulfilled her part of the bargain , and food was plentiful on the island all through the long winter months , though he never knew how it got there .
And by-and-by it was spring once more , and time for the fisher-folk to sail from the mainland .
` Where are we to go now ? '
asked the girl , one day , when the sun seemed brighter and the wind softer than usual . '
I do not care where I go , ' answered the young man ; ` what do you think ? '
The girl replied that she would like to go somewhere right at the other end of the island , and build a house , far away from the huts of the fishing-folk .
And he consented , and that very day they set off in search of a sheltered spot on the banks of a stream , so that it would be easy to get water .
In a tiny bay , on the opposite side of the island they found the very thing , which seemed to have been made on purpose for them ; and as they were tired with their long walk , they laid themselves down on a bank of moss among some birches and prepared to have a good night 's rest , so as to be fresh for work next day .
But before she went to sleep the girl turned to her husband , and said : ` If in your dreams you fancy that you hear strange noises , be sure you do not stir , or get up to see what it is . '
` Oh , it is not likely we shall hear any noises in such a quiet place , ' answered he , and fell sound asleep .
Suddenly he was awakened by a great clatter about his ears , as if all the workmen in the world were sawing and hammering and building close to him .
He was just going to spring up and go to see what it meant , when he luckily remembered his wife 's words and lay still .
But the time till morning seemed very long , and with the first ray of sun they both rose , and pushed aside the branches of the birch trees .
There , in the very place they had chosen , stood a beautiful house -- doors and windows , and everything all complete !
` Now you must fix on a spot for your cow-stalls , ' said the girl , when they had breakfasted off wild cherries ; ` and take care it is the proper size , neither too large nor too small . '
And the husband did as he was bid , though he wondered what use a cow-house could be , as they had no cows to put in it .
But as he was a little afraid of his wife , who knew so much more than he , he asked no questions .
This night also he was awakened by the same sounds as before , and in the morning they found , near the stream , the most beautiful cow-house that ever was seen , with stalls and milk-pails and stools all complete , indeed , everything that a cow-house could possibly want , except the cows .
Then the girl bade him measure out the ground for a storehouse , and this , she said , might be as large as he pleased ; and when the storehouse was ready she proposed that they should set off to pay her parents a visit .
The old people welcomed them heartily , and summoned their neighbours , for many miles round , to a great feast in their honour .
In fact , for several weeks there was no work done on the farm at all ; and at length the young man and his wife grew tired of so much play , and declared that they must return to their own home .
But , before they started on the journey , the wife whispered to her husband : ` Take care to jump over the threshold as quick as you can , or it will be the worse for you . '
The young man listened to her words , and sprang over the threshold like an arrow from a bow ; and it was well he did , for , no sooner was he on the other side , than his father-in-law threw a great hammer at him , which would have broken both his legs , if it had only touched them .
When they had gone some distance on the road home , the girl turned to her husband and said : 'Till you step inside the house , be sure you do not look back , whatever you may hear or see . '
And the husband promised , and for a while all was still ; and he thought no more about the matter till he noticed at last that the nearer he drew to the house the louder grew the noise of the trampling of feet behind him .
As he laid his hand upon the door he thought he was safe , and turned to look .
There , sure enough , was a vast herd of cattle , which had been sent after him by his father-in-law when he found that his daughter had been cleverer than he .
Half of the herd were already through the fence and cropping the grass on the banks of the stream , but half still remained outside and faded into nothing , even as he watched them .
However , enough cattle were left to make the young man rich , and he and his wife lived happily together , except that every now and then the girl vanished from his sight , and never told him where she had been .
For a long time he kept silence about it ; but one day , when he had been complaining of her absence , she said to him : ` Dear husband , I am bound to go , even against my will , and there is only one way to stop me .
Drive a nail into the threshold , and then I can never pass in or out . '
And so he did .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How Some Wild Animals Became Tame Ones Once upon a time there lived a miller who was so rich that , when he was going to be married , he asked to the feast not only his own friends but also the wild animals who dwelt in the hills and woods round about .
The chief of the bears , the wolves , the foxes , the horses , the cows , the goats , the sheep , and the reindeer , all received invitations ; and as they were not accustomed to weddings they were greatly pleased and flattered , and sent back messages in the politest language that they would certainly be there .
The first to start on the morning of the wedding-day was the bear , who always liked to be punctual ; and , besides , he had a long way to go , and his hair , being so thick and rough , needed a good brushing before it was fit to be seen at a party .
However , he took care to awaken very early , and set off down the road with a light heart .
Before he had walked very far he met a boy who came whistling along , hitting at the tops of the flowers with a stick .
` Where are you going ? '
said he , looking at the bear in surprise , for he was an old acquaintance , and not generally so smart .
` Oh , just to the miller 's marriage , ' answered the bear carelessly .
` Of course , I would much rather stay at home , but the miller was so anxious I should be there that I really could not refuse . '
` Do n't go , do n't go ! '
cried the boy .
` If you do you will never come back !
You have got the most beautiful skin in the world -- just the kind that everyone is wanting , and they will be sure to kill you and strip you of it . ' '
I had not thought of that , ' said the bear , whose face turned white , only nobody could see it .
` If you are certain that they would be so wicked -- but perhaps you are jealous because nobody has invited you ? '
` Oh , nonsense ! '
replied the boy angrily , ` do as you see .
It is your skin , and not mine ; I do n't care what becomes of it ! '
And he walked quickly on with his head in the air .
The bear waited until he was out of sight , and then followed him slowly , for he felt in his heart that the boy 's advice was good , though he was too proud to say so .
The boy soon grew tired of walking along the road , and turned off into the woods , where there were bushes he could jump and streams he could wade ; but he had not gone far before he met the wolf .
` Where are you going ? '
asked he , for it was not the first time he had seen him .
` Oh , just to the miller 's marriage , ' answered the wolf , as the bear had done before him .
` It is rather tiresome , of course -- weddings are always so stupid ; but still one must be good-natured ! '
` Do n't go ! '
said the boy again .
` Your skin is so thick and warm , and winter is not far off now .
They will kill you , and strip it from you . '
The wolf 's jaw dropped in astonishment and terror .
` Do you really think that would happen ? '
he gasped .
` Yes , to be sure , I do , ' answered the boy .
` But it is your affair , not mine .
So good-morning , ' and on he went .
The wolf stood still for a few minutes , for he was trembling all over , and then crept quietly back to his cave .
Next the boy met the fox , whose lovely coat of silvery grey was shining in the sun .
` You look very fine ! '
said the boy , stopping to admire him , ` are you going to the miller 's wedding too ? '
` Yes , ' answered the fox ; ` it is a long journey to take for such a thing as that , but you know what the miller 's friends are like -- so dull and heavy !
It is only kind to go and amuse them a little . '
` You poor fellow , ' said the boy pityingly .
` Take my advice and stay at home .
If you once enter the miller 's gate his dogs will tear you in pieces . '
` Ah , well , such things have occurred , I know , ' replied the fox gravely .
And without saying any more he trotted off the way he had come .
His tail had scarcely disappeared , when a great noise of crashing branches was heard , and up bounded the horse , his black skin glistening like satin .
` Good-morning , ' he called to the boy as he galloped past , ' I ca n't wait to talk to you now .
I have promised the miller to be present at his wedding-feast , and they wo n't sit down till I come . '
` Stop !
stop ! '
cried the boy after him , and there was something in his voice that made the horse pull up .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he .
` You do n't know what you are doing , ' said the boy .
` If once you go there you will never gallop through these woods any more .
You are stronger than many men , but they will catch you and put ropes round you , and you will have to work and to serve them all the days of your life . '
The horse threw back his head at these words , and laughed scornfully .
` Yes , I am stronger than many men , ' answered he , ` and all the ropes in the world would not hold me .
Let them bind me as fast as they will , I can always break loose , and return to the forest and freedom . '
And with this proud speech he gave a whisk of his long tail , and galloped away faster than before .
But when he reached the miller 's house everything happened as the boy had said .
While he was looking at the guests and thinking how much handsomer and stronger he was than any of them , a rope was suddenly flung over his head , and he was thrown down and a bit thrust between his teeth .
Then , in spite of his struggles , he was dragged to a stable , and shut up for several days without any food , till his spirit was broken and his coat had lost its gloss .
After that he was harnessed to a plough , and had plenty of time to remember all he had lost through not listening to the counsel of the boy .
When the horse had turned a deaf ear to his words the boy wandered idly along , sometimes gathering wild strawberries from a bank , and sometimes plucking wild cherries from a tree , till he reached a clearing in the middle of the forest .
Crossing this open space was a beautiful milk-white cow with a wreath of flowers round her neck .
` Good-morning , ' she said pleasantly , as she came up to the place where the boy was standing .
` Good-morning , ' he returned .
` Where are you going in such a hurry ? '
` To the miller 's wedding ; I am rather late already , for the wreath took such a long time to make , so I ca n't stop . '
` Do n't go , ' said the boy earnestly ; ' when once they have tasted your milk they will never let you leave them , and you will have to serve them all the days of your life . '
` Oh , nonsense ; what do you know about it ? '
answered the cow , who always thought she was wiser than other people .
` Why , I can run twice as fast as any of them !
I should like to see anybody try to keep me against my will . '
And , without even a polite bow , she went on her way , feeling very much offended .
But everything turned out just as the boy had said .
The company had all heard of the fame of the cow 's milk , and persuaded her to give them some , and then her doom was sealed .
A crowd gathered round her , and held her horns so that she could not use them , and , like the horse , she was shut in the stable , and only let out in the mornings , when a long rope was tied round her head , and she was fastened to a stake in a grassy meadow .
And so it happened to the goat and to the sheep .
Last of all came the reindeer , looking as he always did , as if some serious business was on hand .
` Where are you going ? '
asked the boy , who by this time was tired of wild cherries , and was thinking of his dinner . '
I am invited to the wedding , ' answered the reindeer , ` and the miller has begged me on no account to fail him . ' '
O fool ! '
cried the boy , ` have you no sense at all ?
Do n't you know that when you get there they will hold you fast , for neither beast nor bird is as strong or as swift as you ? '
` That is exactly why I am quite safe , ' replied the reindeer . '
I am so strong that no one can bind me , and so swift that not even an arrow can catch me .
So , goodbye for the present , you will soon see me back . '
But none of the animals that went to the miller 's wedding ever came back .
And because they were self-willed and conceited , and would not listen to good advice , they and their children have been the servants of men to this very day .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Fortune and the Wood-Cutter Several hundreds of years ago there lived in a forest a wood-cutter and his wife and children .
He was very poor , having only his axe to depend upon , and two mules to carry the wood he cut to the neighbouring town ; but he worked hard , and was always out of bed by five o'clock , summer and winter .
This went on for twenty years , and though his sons were now grown up , and went with their father to the forest , everything seemed to go against them , and they remained as poor as ever .
In the end the wood-cutter lost heart , and said to himself : ` What is the good of working like this if I never am a penny the richer at the end ?
I shall go to the forest no more !
And perhaps , if I take to my bed , and do not run after Fortune , one day she may come to me . '
So the next morning he did not get up , and when six o'clock struck , his wife , who had been cleaning the house , went to see what was the matter .
` Are you ill ? '
she asked wonderingly , surprised at not finding him dressed .
` The cock has crowed ever so often .
It is high time for you to get up . '
` Why should I get up ? '
asked the man , without moving .
` Why ?
to go to the forest , of course . '
` Yes ; and when I have toiled all day I hardly earn enough to give us one meal . '
` But what can we do , my poor husband ? '
said she .
` It is just a trick of Fortune 's , who would never smile upon us . '
` Well , I have had my fill of Fortune 's tricks , ' cried he .
` If she wants me she can find me here .
But I have done with the wood for ever . '
` My dear husband , grief has driven you mad !
Do you think Fortune will come to anybody who does not go after her ?
Dress yourself , and saddle the mules , and begin your work .
Do you know that there is not a morsel of bread in the house ? ' '
I do n't care if there is n't , and I am not going to the forest .
It is no use your talking ; nothing will make me change my mind . '
The distracted wife begged and implored in vain ; her husband persisted in staying in bed , and at last , in despair , she left him and went back to her work .
An hour or two later a man from the nearest village knocked at her door , and when she opened it , he said to her : ` Good-morning , mother .
I have got a job to do , and I want to know if your husband will lend me your mules , as I see he is not using them , and can lend me a hand himself ? '
` He is upstairs ; you had better ask him , ' answered the woman .
And the man went up , and repeated his request . '
I am sorry , neighbour , but I have sworn not to leave my bed , and nothing will make me break my vow . '
` Well , then , will you lend me your two mules ?
I will pay you something for them . '
` Certainly , neighbour .
Take them and welcome . '
So the man left the house , and leading the mules from the stable , placed two sacks on their back , and drove them to a field where he had found a hidden treasure .
He filled the sacks with the money , though he knew perfectly well that it belonged to the sultan , and was driving them quietly home again , when he saw two soldiers coming along the road .
Now the man was aware that if he was caught he would be condemned to death , so he fled back into the forest .
The mules , left to themselves , took the path that led to their master 's stable .
The wood-cutter 's wife was looking out of the window when the mules drew up before the door , so heavily laden that they almost sank under their burdens .
She lost no time in calling her husband , who was still lying in bed .
` Quick !
quick !
get up as fast as you can .
Our two mules have returned with sacks on their backs , so heavily laden with something or other that the poor beasts can hardly stand up . '
` Wife , I have told you a dozen times already that I am not going to get up .
Why ca n't you leave me in peace ? '
As she found she could get no help from her husband the woman took a large knife and cut the cords which bound the sacks on to the animals ' backs .
They fell at once to the ground , and out poured a rain of gold pieces , till the little court-yard shone like the sun . '
A treasure ! '
gasped the woman , as soon as she could speak from surprise . '
A treasure ! '
And she ran off to tell her husband .
` Get up !
get up ! '
she cried .
` You were quite right not to go to the forest , and to await Fortune in your bed ; she has come at last !
Our mules have returned home laden with all the gold in the world , and it is now lying in the court .
No one in the whole country can be as rich as we are ! '
In an instant the wood-cutter was on his feet , and running to the court , where he paused dazzled by the glitter of the coins which lay around him .
` You see , my dear wife , that I was right , ' he said at last .
` Fortune is so capricious , you can never count on her .
Run after her , and she is sure to fly from you ; stay still , and she is sure to come . '
-LSB- Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure . -RSB-
The Enchanted Head Once upon a time an old woman lived in a small cottage near the sea with her two daughters .
They were very poor , and the girls seldom left the house , as they worked all day long making veils for the ladies to wear over their faces , and every morning , when the veils were finished , the other took them over the bridge and sold them in the city .
Then she bought the food that they needed for the day , and returned home to do her share of veil-making .
One morning the old woman rose even earlier than usual , and set off for the city with her wares .
She was just crossing the bridge when , suddenly , she knocked up against a human head , which she had never seen there before .
The woman started back in horror ; but what was her surprise when the head spoke , exactly as if it had a body joined on to it .
` Take me with you , good mother ! '
it said imploringly ; ` take me with you back to your house . '
At the sound of these words the poor woman nearly went mad with terror .
Have that horrible thing always at home ?
Never !
never !
And she turned and ran back as fast as she could , not knowing that the head was jumping , dancing , and rolling after her .
But when she reached her own door it bounded in before her , and stopped in front of the fire , begging and praying to be allowed to stay .
All that day there was no food in the house , for the veils had not been sold , and they had no money to buy anything with .
So they all sat silent at their work , inwardly cursing the head which was the cause of their misfortunes .
When evening came , and there was no sign of supper , the head spoke , for the first time that day : ` Good mother , does no one ever eat here ?
During all the hours I have spent in your house not a creature has touched anything . '
` No , ' answered the old woman , ` we are not eating anything . '
` And why not , good mother ? '
` Because we have no money to buy any food . '
` Is it your custom never to eat ? '
` No , for every morning I go into the city to sell my veils , and with the few shillings I get for them I buy all we want .
To-day I did not cross the bridge , so of course I had nothing for food . '
` Then I am the cause of your having gone hungry all day ? '
asked the head .
` Yes , you are , ' answered the old woman .
` Well , then , I will give you money and plenty of it , if you will only do as I tell you .
In an hour , as the clock strikes twelve , you must be on the bridge at the place where you met me .
When you get there call out `` Ahmed , '' three times , as loud as you can .
Then a negro will appear , and you must say to him : `` The head , your master , desires you to open the trunk , and to give me the green purse which you will find in it . '' '
` Very well , my lord , ' said the old woman , ' I will set off at once for the bridge . '
And wrapping her veil round her she went out .
Midnight was striking as she reached the spot where she had met the head so many hours before .
` Ahmed !
Ahmed !
Ahmed ! '
cried she , and immediately a huge negro , as tall as a giant , stood on the bridge before her .
` What do you want ? '
asked he .
` The head , your master , desires you to open the trunk , and to give me the green purse which you will find in it . ' '
I will be back in a moment , good mother , ' said he .
And three minutes later he placed a purse full of sequins in the old woman 's hand .
No one can imagine the joy of the whole family at the sight of all this wealth .
The tiny , tumble-down cottage was rebuilt , the girls had new dresses , and their mother ceased selling veils .
It was such a new thing to them to have money to spend , that they were not as careful as they might have been , and by-and-by there was not a single coin left in the purse .
When this happened their hearts sank within them , and their faces fell .
` Have you spent your fortune ? '
asked the head from its corner , when it saw how sad they looked .
` Well , then , go at midnight , good mother , to the bridge , and call out `` Mahomet ! ''
three times , as loud as you can .
A negro will appear in answer , and you must tell him to open the trunk , and to give you the red purse which he will find there . '
The old woman did not need twice telling , but set off at once for the bridge .
` Mahomet !
Mahomet !
Mahomet ! '
cried she , with all her might ; and in an instant a negro , still larger than the last , stood before her .
` What do you want ? '
asked he .
` The head , your master , bids you open the trunk , and to give me the red purse which you will find in it . '
` Very well , good mother , I will do so , ' answered the negro , and , the moment after he had vanished , he reappeared with the purse in his hand .
This time the money seemed so endless that the old woman built herself a new house , and filled it with the most beautiful things that were to be found in the shops .
Her daughters were always wrapped in veils that looked as if they were woven out of sunbeams , and their dresses shone with precious stones .
The neighbours wondered where all this sudden wealth had sprung from , but nobody knew about the head .
` Good mother , ' said the head , one day , ` this morning you are to go to the city and ask the sultan to give me his daughter for my bride . '
` Do what ? '
asked the old woman in amazement .
` How can I tell the sultan that a head without a body wishes to become his son-in-law ?
They will think that I am mad , and I shall be hooted from the palace and stoned by the children . '
` Do as I bid you , ' replied the head ; ` it is my will . '
The old woman was afraid to say anything more , and , putting on her richest clothes , started for the palace .
The sultan granted her an audience at once , and , in a trembling voice , she made her request .
` Are you mad , old woman ? '
said the sultan , staring at her .
` The wooer is powerful , O Sultan , and nothing is impossible to him . '
` Is that true ? '
` It is , O Sultan ; I swear it , ' answered she .
` Then let him show his power by doing three things , and I will give him my daughter . '
` Command , O gracious prince , ' said she .
` Do you see that hill in front of the palace ? '
asked the sultan . '
I see it , ' answered she .
` Well , in forty days the man who has sent you must make that hill vanish , and plant a beautiful garden in its place .
That is the first thing .
Now go , and tell him what I say . '
So the old woman returned and told the head the sultan 's first condition .
` It is well , ' he replied ; and said no more about it .
For thirty-nine days the head remained in its favourite corner .
The old woman thought that the task set before was beyond his powers , and that no more would be heard about the sultan 's daughter .
But on the thirty-ninth evening after her visit to the palace , the head suddenly spoke .
` Good mother , ' he said , ` you must go to-night to the bridge , and when you are there cry `` Ali !
Ali !
Ali ! ''
as loud as you can .
A negro will appear before you , and you will tell him that he is to level the hill , and to make , in its place , the most beautiful garden that ever was seen . ' '
I will go at once , ' answered she .
It did not take her long to reach the bridge which led to the city , and she took up her position on the spot where she had first seen the head , and called loudly ` Ali !
Ali !
Ali . '
In an instant a negro appeared before her , of such a huge size that the old woman was half frightened ; but his voice was mild and gentle as he said : ` What is it that you want ? '
` Your master bids you level the hill that stands in front of the sultan 's palace and in its place to make the most beautiful garden in the world . '
` Tell my master he shall be obeyed , ' replied Ali ; ` it shall be done this moment . '
And the old woman went home and gave Ali 's message to the head .
Meanwhile the sultan was in his palace waiting till the fortieth day should dawn , and wondering that not one spadeful of earth should have been dug out of the hill .
` If that old woman has been playing me a trick , ' thought he , ' I will hang her !
And I will put up a gallows to-morrow on the hill itself . '
But when to-morrow came there was no hill , and when the sultan opened his eyes he could not imagine why the room was so much lighter than usual , and what was the reason of the sweet smell of flowers that filled the air .
` Can there be a fire ? '
he said to himself ; ` the sun never came in at this window before .
I must get up and see . '
So he rose and looked out , and underneath him flowers from every part of the world were blooming , and creepers of every colour hung in chains from tree to tree .
Then he remembered .
` Certainly that old woman 's son is a clever magician ! '
cried he ; ' I never met anyone as clever as that .
What shall I give him to do next ?
Let me think .
Ah !
I know . '
And he sent for the old woman , who by the orders of the head , was waiting below .
` Your son has carried out my wishes very nicely , ' he said .
` The garden is larger and better than that of any other king .
But when I walk across it I shall need some place to rest on the other side .
In forty days he must build me a palace , in which every room shall be filled with different furniture from a different country , and each more magnificent than any room that ever was seen . '
And having said this he turned round and went away .
` Oh !
he will never be able to do that , ' thought she ; ` it is much more difficult than the hill . '
And she walked home slowly , with her head bent .
` Well , what am I to do next ? '
asked the head cheerfully .
And the old woman told her story .
` Dear me !
is that all ?
why it is child 's play , ' answered the head ; and troubled no more about the palace for thirty-nine days .
Then he told the old woman to go to the bridge and call for Hassan .
` What do you want , old woman ? '
asked Hassan , when he appeared , for he was not as polite as the others had been .
` Your master commands you to build the most magnificent palace that ever was seen , ' replied she ; ` and you are to place it on the borders of the new garden . '
` He shall be obeyed , ' answered Hassan .
And when the sultan woke he saw , in the distance , a palace built of soft blue marble , resting on slender pillars of pure gold .
` That old woman 's son is certainly all-powerful , ' cried he ; ` what shall I bid him do now ? '
And after thinking some time he sent for the old woman , who was expecting the summons .
` The garden is wonderful , and the palace the finest in the world , ' said he , ` so fine , that my servants would cut but a sorry figure in it .
Let your son fill it with forty slaves whose beauty shall be unequalled , all exactly like each other , and of the same height . '
This time the king thought he had invented something totally impossible , and was quite pleased with himself for his cleverness .
Thirty-nine days passed , and at midnight on the night of the last the old woman was standing on the bridge .
` Bekir !
Bekir !
Bekir ! '
cried she .
And a negro appeared , and inquired what she wanted .
` The head , your master , bids you find forty slaves of unequalled beauty , and of the same height , and place them in the sultan 's palace on the other side of the garden . '
And when , on the morning of the fortieth day , the sultan went to the blue palace , and was received by the forty slaves , he nearly lost his wits from surprise . '
I will assuredly give my daughter to the old woman 's son , ' thought he .
` If I were to search all the world through I could never find a more powerful son-in-law . '
And when the old woman entered his presence he informed her that he was ready to fulfil his promise , and she was to bid her son appear at the palace without delay .
This command did not at all please the old woman , though , of course , she made no objections to the sultan .
` All has gone well so far , ' she grumbled , when she told her story to the head , ' but what do you suppose the sultan will say , when he sees his daughter 's husband ? '
` Never mind what he says !
Put me on a silver dish and carry me to the palace . '
So it was done , though the old woman 's heart beat as she laid down the dish with the head upon it .
At the sight before him the king flew into a violent rage . '
I will never marry my daughter to such a monster , ' he cried .
But the princess placed her head gently on his arm .
` You have given your word , my father , and you can not break it , ' said she .
` But , my child , it is impossible for you to marry such a being , ' exclaimed the sultan .
` Yes , I will marry him .
He had a beautiful head , and I love him already . '
So the marriage was celebrated , and great feasts were held in the palace , though the people wept tears to think of the sad fate of their beloved princess .
But when the merry-making was done , and the young couple were alone , the head suddenly disappeared , or , rather , a body was added to it , and one of the handsomest young men that ever was seen stood before the princess . '
A wicked fairy enchanted me at my birth , ' he said , ` and for the rest of the world I must always be a head only .
But for you , and you only , I am a man like other men . '
` And that is all I care about , ' said the princess .
-LSB- Traditions populaires de toutes les nations -LRB- Asie Mineure -RRB- -RSB- .
The Sister of the Sun A long time ago there lived a young prince whose favourite playfellow was the son of the gardener who lived in the grounds of the palace .
The king would have preferred his choosing a friend from the pages who were brought up at court ; but the prince would have nothing to say to them , and as he was a spoilt child , and allowed his way in all things , and the gardener 's boy was quiet and well-behaved , he was suffered to be in the palace , morning , noon , and night .
The game the children loved the best was a match at archery , for the king had given them two bows exactly alike , and they would spend whole days in trying to see which could shoot the highest .
This is always very dangerous , and it was a great wonder they did not put their eyes out ; but somehow or other they managed to escape .
One morning , when the prince had done his lessons , he ran out to call his friend , and they both hurried off to the lawn which was their usual playground .
They took their bows out of the little hut where their toys were kept , and began to see which could shoot the highest .
At last they happened to let fly their arrows both together , and when they fell to earth again the tail feather of a golden hen was found sticking in one .
Now the question began to arise whose was the lucky arrow , for they were both alike , and look as closely as you would you could see no difference between them .
The prince declared that the arrow was his , and the gardener 's boy was quite sure it was HIS -- and on this occasion he was perfectly right ; but , as they could not decide the matter , they went straight to the king .
When the king had heard the story , he decided that the feather belonged to his son ; but the other boy would not listen to this and claimed the feather for himself .
At length the king 's patience gave way , and he said angrily : ` Very well ; if you are so sure that the feather is yours , yours it shall be ; only you will have to seek till you find a golden hen with a feather missing from her tail .
And if you fail to find her your head will be the forfeit . '
The boy had need of all his courage to listen silently to the king 's words .
He had no idea where the golden hen might be , or even , if he discovered that , how he was to get to her .
But there was nothing for it but to do the king 's bidding , and he felt that the sooner he left the palace the better .
So he went home and put some food into a bag , and then set forth , hoping that some accident might show him which path to take .
After walking for several hours he met a fox , who seemed inclined to be friendly , and the boy was so glad to have anyone to talk to that he sat down and entered into conversation .
` Where are you going ? '
asked the fox . '
I have got to find a golden hen who has lost a feather out of her tail , ' answered the boy ; ` but I do n't know where she lives or how I shall catch her ! '
` Oh , I can show you the way ! '
said the fox , who was really very good-natured .
` Far towards the east , in that direction , lives a beautiful maiden who is called `` The Sister of the Sun . ''
She has three golden hens in her house .
Perhaps the feather belongs to one of them . '
The boy was delighted at this news , and they walked on all day together , the fox in front , and the boy behind .
When evening came they lay down to sleep , and put the knapsack under their heads for a pillow .
Suddenly , about midnight , the fox gave a low whine , and drew nearer to his bedfellow .
` Cousin , ' he whispered very low , ` there is someone coming who will take the knapsack away from me .
Look over there ! '
And the boy , peeping through the bushes , saw a man .
` Oh , I do n't think he will rob us ! '
said the boy ; and when the man drew near , he told them his story , which so much interested the stranger that he asked leave to travel with them , as he might be of some use .
So when the sun rose they set out again , the fox in front as before , the man and boy following .
After some hours they reached the castle of the Sister of the Sun , who kept the golden hens among her treasures .
They halted before the gate and took counsel as to which of them should go in and see the lady herself . '
I think it would be best for me to enter and steal the hens , ' said the fox ; but this did not please the boy at all .
` No , it is my business , so it is right that I should go , ' answered he .
` You will find it a very difficult matter to get hold of the hens , ' replied the fox .
` Oh , nothing is likely to happen to me , ' returned the boy .
` Well , go then , ' said the fox , ` but be careful not to make any mistake .
Steal only the hen which has the feather missing from her tail , and leave the others alone . '
The man listened , but did not interfere , and the boy entered the court of the palace .
He soon spied the three hens strutting proudly about , though they were really anxiously wondering if there were not some grains lying on the ground that they might be glad to eat .
And as the last one passed by him , he saw she had one feather missing from her tail .
At this sight the youth darted forward and seized the hen by the neck so that she could not struggle .
Then , tucking her comfortably under his arm , he made straight for the gate .
Unluckily , just as he was about to go through it he looked back and caught a glimpse of wonderful splendours from an open door of the palace .
` After all , there is no hurry , ' he said to himself ; ' I may as well see something now I AM here , ' and turned back , forgetting all about the hen , which escaped from under his arm , and ran to join her sisters .
He was so much fascinated by the sight of all the beautiful things which peeped through the door that he scarcely noticed that he had lost the prize he had won ; and he did not remember there was such a thing as a hen in the world when he beheld the Sister of the Sun sleeping on a bed before him .
For some time he stood staring ; then he came to himself with a start , and feeling that he had no business there , softly stole away , and was fortunate enough to recapture the hen , which he took with him to the gate .
On the threshold he stopped again .
` Why should I not look at the Sister of the Sun ? '
he thought to himself ; ` she is asleep , and will never know . '
And he turned back for the second time and entered the chamber , while the hen wriggled herself free as before .
When he had gazed his fill he went out into the courtyard and picked up his hen who was seeking for corn .
As he drew near the gate he paused .
` Why did I not give her a kiss ? '
he said to himself ; ' I shall never kiss any woman so beautiful . '
And he wrung his hands with regret , so that the hen fell to the ground and ran away .
` But I can do it still ! '
he cried with delight , and he rushed back to the chamber and kissed the sleeping maiden on the forehead .
But , alas !
when he came out again he found that the hen had grown so shy that she would not let him come near her .
And , worse than that , her sisters began to cluck so loud that the Sister of the Sun was awakened by the noise .
She jumped up in haste from her bed , and going to the door she said to the boy : ` You shall never , never , have my hen till you bring me back my sister who was carried off by a giant to his castle , which is a long way off . '
Slowly and sadly the youth left the palace and told his story to his friends , who were waiting outside the gate , how he had actually held the hen three times in his arms and had lost her . '
I knew that we should not get off so easily , ' said the fox , shaking his head ; ` but there is no more time to waste .
Let us set off at once in search of the sister .
Luckily , I know the way . '
They walked on for many days , till at length the fox , who , as usual , was going first , stopped suddenly .
` The giant 's castle is not far now , ' he said , ` but when we reach it you two must remain outside while I go and fetch the princess .
Directly I bring her out you must both catch hold of her tight , and get away as fast as you can ; while I return to the castle and talk to the giants -- for there are many of them -- so that they may not notice the escape of the princess . '
A few minutes later they arrived at the castle , and the fox , who had often been there before , slipped in without difficulty .
There were several giants , both young and old , in the hall , and they were all dancing round the princess .
As soon as they saw the fox they cried out : ` Come and dance too , old fox ; it is a long time since we have seen you . '
So the fox stood up , and did his steps with the best of them ; but after a while he stopped and said : ' I know a charming new dance that I should like to show you ; but it can only be done by two people .
If the princess will honour me for a few minutes , you will soon see how it is done . '
` Ah , that is delightful ; we want something new , ' answered they , and placed the princess between the outstretched arms of the fox .
In one instant he had knocked over the great stand of lights that lighted the hall , and in the darkness had borne the princess to the gate .
His comrades seized hold of her , as they had been bidden , and the fox was back again in the hall before anyone had missed him .
He found the giants busy trying to kindle a fire and get some light ; but after a bit someone cried out : ` Where is the princess ? '
` Here , in my arms , ' replied the fox .
` Do n't be afraid ; she is quite safe . '
And he waited until he thought that his comrades had gained a good start , and put at least five or six mountains between themselves and the giants .
Then he sprang through the door , calling , as he went : ` The maiden is here ; take her if you can ! '
At these words the giants understood that their prize had escaped , and they ran after the fox as fast as their great legs could carry them , thinking that they should soon come up with the fox , who they supposed had the princess on his back .
The fox , on his side , was far too clever to choose the same path that his friends had taken , but would in and out of the forest , till at last even HE was tired out , and fell fast asleep under a tree .
Indeed , he was so exhausted with his day 's work that he never heard the approach of the giants , and their hands were already stretched out to seize his tail when his eyes opened , and with a tremendous bound he was once more beyond their reach .
All the rest of the night the fox ran and ran ; but when bright red spread over the east , he stopped and waited till the giants were close upon him .
Then he turned , and said quietly : ` Look , there is the Sister of the Sun ! '
The giants raised their eyes all at once , and were instantly turned into pillars of stone .
The fox then made each pillar a low bow , and set off to join his friends .
He knew a great many short cuts across the hills , so it was not long before he came up with them , and all four travelled night and day till they reached the castle of the Sister of the Sun .
What joy and feasting there was throughout the palace at the sight of the princess whom they had mourned as dead !
and they could not make enough of the boy who had gone through such dangers in order to rescue her .
The golden hen was given to him at once , and , more than that , the Sister of the Sun told him that , in a little time , when he was a few years older , she would herself pay a visit to his home and become his wife .
The boy could hardly believe his ears when he heard what was in store for him , for his was the most beautiful princess in all the world ; and however thick the darkness might be , it fled away at once from the light of a star on her forehead .
So the boy set forth on his journey home , with his friends for company ; his heart full of gladness when he thought of the promise of the princess .
But , one by one , his comrades dropped off at the places where they had first met him , and he was quite alone when he reached his native town and the gates of the palace .
With the golden hen under his arm he presented himself before the king , and told his adventures , and how he was going to have for a wife a princess so wonderful and unlike all other princesses , that the star on her forehead could turn night into day .
The king listened silently , and when the boy had done , he said quietly : ` If I find that your story is not true I will have you thrown into a cask of pitch . '
` It is true -- every word of it , ' answered the boy ; and went on to tell that the day and even the hour were fixed when his bride was to come and seek him .
But as the time drew near , and nothing was heard of the princess , the youth became anxious and uneasy , especially when it came to his ears that the great cask was being filled with pitch , and that sticks were laid underneath to make a fire to boil it with .
All day long the boy stood at the window , looking over the sea by which the princess must travel ; but there were no signs of her , not even the tiniest white sail .
And , as he stood , soldiers came and laid hands on him , and led him up to the cask , where a big fire was blazing , and the horrid black pitch boiling and bubbling over the sides .
He looked and shuddered , but there was no escape ; so he shut his eyes to avoid seeing .
The word was given for him to mount the steps which led to the top of the cask , when , suddenly , some men were seen running with all their might , crying as they went that a large ship with its sails spread was making straight for the city .
No one knew what the ship was , or whence it came ; but the king declared that he would not have the boy burned before its arrival , there would always be time enough for that .
At length the vessel was safe in port , and a whisper went through the watching crowd that on board was the Sister of the Sun , who had come to marry the young peasant as she had promised .
In a few moments more she had landed , and desired to be shown the way to the cottage which her bridegroom had so often described to her ; and whither he had been led back by the king 's order at the first sign of the ship .
` Do n't you know me ? '
asked the Sister of the Sun , bending over him where he lay , almost driven out of his senses with terror .
` No , no ; I do n't know you , ' answered the youth , without raising his eyes .
` Kiss me , ' said the Sister of the Sun ; and the youth obeyed her , but still without looking up .
` Do n't you know me NOW ? '
asked she .
` No , I do n't know you -- I do n't know you , ' he replied , with the manner of a man whom fear had driven mad .
At this the Sister of the Sun grew rather frightened , and beginning at the beginning , she told him the story of his meeting with her , and how she had come a long way in order to marry him .
And just as she had finished in walked the king , to see if what the boy had said was really true .
But hardly had he opened the door of the cottage when he was almost blinded by the light that filled it ; and he remembered what he had been told about the star on the forehead of the princess .
He staggered back as if he had been struck , then a curious feeling took hold of him , which he had never felt before , and falling on his knees before the Sister of the Sun , he implored her to give up all thought of the peasant boy , and to share his throne .
But she laughed , and said she had a finer throne of her own , if she wanted to sit on it , and that she was free to please herself , and would have no husband but the boy whom she would never have seen except for the king himself . '
I shall marry him to-morrow , ' ended she ; and ordered the preparations to be set on foot at once .
When the next day came , however , the bridegroom 's father informed the princess that , by the law of the land , the marriage must take place in the presence of the king ; but he hoped his majesty would not long delay his arrival .
An hour or two passed , and everyone was waiting and watching , when at last the sound of trumpets was heard and a grand procession was seen marching up the street .
A chair covered with velvet had been made ready for the king , and he took his seat upon it , and , looking round upon the assembled company , he said : ' I have no wish to forbid this marriage ; but , before I can allow it to be celebrated , the bridegroom must prove himself worthy of such a bride by fulfilling three tasks .
And the first is that in a single day he must cut down every tree in an entire forest .
The youth stood aghast as the king 's words .
He had never cut down a tree in his life , and had not the least idea how to begin .
And as for a whole forest -- !
But the princess saw what was passing in his mind , and whispered to him : ` Do n't be afraid .
In my ship you will find an axe , which you must carry off to the forest .
When you have cut down one tree with it just say : `` So let the forest fall , '' and in an instant all the trees will be on the ground .
But pick up three chips of the tree you felled , and put them in your pocket . '
And the young man did exactly as he was bid , and soon returned with the three chips safe in his coat .
The following morning the princess declared that she had been thinking about the matter , and that , as she was not a subject of the king , she saw no reason why she should be bound by his laws ; and she meant to be married that very day .
But the bridegroom 's father told her that it was all very well for her to talk like that , but it was quite different for his son , who would pay with his head for any disobedience to the king 's commands .
However , in consideration of what the youth had done the day before , he hoped his majesty 's heart might be softened , especially as he had sent a message that they might expect him at once .
With this the bridal pair had to be content , and be as patient as they could till the king 's arrival .
He did not keep them long , but they saw by his face that nothing good awaited them .
` The marriage can not take place , ' he said shortly , 'till the youth has joined to their roots all the trees he cut down yesterday . '
This sounded much more difficult than what he had done before , and he turned in despair to the Sister of the Sun .
` It is all right , ' she whispered encouragingly .
` Take this water and sprinkle it on one of the fallen trees , and say to it : `` So let all the trees of the forest stand upright , '' and in a moment they will be erect again . '
And the young man did what he was told , and left the forest looking exactly as it had done before .
Now , surely , thought the princess , there was no longer any need to put off the wedding ; and she gave orders that all should be ready for the following day .
But again the old man interfered , and declared that without the king 's permission no marriage could take place .
For the third time his majesty was sent for , and for the third time he proclaimed that he could not give his consent until the bridegroom should have slain a serpent which dwelt in a broad river that flowed at the back of the castle .
Everyone knew stories of this terrible serpent , though no one had actually seen it ; but from time to time a child strayed from home and never came back , and then mothers would forbid the other children to go near the river , which had juicy fruits and lovely flowers growing along its banks .
So no wonder the youth trembled and turned pale when he heard what lay before him .
` You will succeed in this also , ' whispered the Sister of the Sun , pressing his hand , ` for in my ship is a magic sword which will cut through everything .
Go down to the river and unfasten a boat which lies moored there , and throw the chips into the water .
When the serpent rears up its body you will cut off its three heads with one blow of your sword .
Then take the tip of each tongue and go with it to-morrow morning into the king 's kitchen .
If the king himself should enter , just say to him : `` Here are three gifts I offer you in return for the services you demanded of me ! ''
and throw the tips of the serpent 's tongues at him , and hasten to the ship as fast as your legs will carry you .
But be sure you take great care never to look behind you . '
The young man did exactly what the princess had told him .
The three chips which he flung into the river became a boat , and , as he steered across the stream , the serpent put up its head and hissed loudly .
The youth had his sword ready , and in another second the three heads were bobbing on the water .
Guiding his boat till he was beside them , he stooped down and snipped off the ends of the tongues , and then rowed back to the other bank .
Next morning he carried them into the royal kitchen , and when the king entered , as was his custom , to see what he was going to have for dinner , the bridegroom flung them in his face , saying : ` Here is a gift for you in return for the services you asked of me . '
And , opening the kitchen door , he fled to the ship .
Unluckily he missed the way , and in his excitement ran backwards and forwards , without knowing whither he was going .
At last , in despair , he looked round , and saw to his amazement that both the city and palace had vanished completely .
Then he turned his eyes in the other direction , and , far , far away , he caught sight of the ship with her sails spread , and a fair wind behind her .
This dreadful spectacle seemed to take away his senses , and all day long he wandered about , without knowing where he was going , till , in the evening , he noticed some smoke from a little hut of turf near by .
He went straight up to it and cried : ' O mother , let me come in for pity 's sake ! '
The old woman who lived in the hut beckoned to him to enter , and hardly was he inside when he cried again : ' O mother , can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
But the woman only shook her head .
` No , I know nothing of her , ' said she .
The young man turned to leave the hut , but the old woman stopped him , and , giving him a letter , begged him to carry it to her next eldest sister , saying : ` If you should get tired on the way , take out the letter and rustle the paper . '
This advice surprised the young man a good deal , as he did not see how it could help him ; but he did not answer , and went down the road without knowing where he was going .
At length he grew so tired he could walk no more ; then he remembered what the old woman had said .
After he had rustled the leaves only once all fatigue disappeared , and he strode over the grass till he came to another little turf hut .
` Let me in , I pray you , dear mother , ' cried he .
And the door opened in front of him .
` Your sister has sent you this letter , ' he said , and added quickly : ' O mother !
can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
` No , I know nothing of her , ' answered she .
But as he turned hopelessly away , she stopped him .
` If you happen to pass my eldest sister 's house , will you give her this letter ? '
said she .
` And if you should get tired on the road , just take it out of your pocket and rustle the paper . '
So the young man put the letter in his pocket , and walked all day over the hills till he reached a little turf hut , exactly like the other two .
` Let me in , I pray you , dear mother , ' cried he .
And as he entered he added : ` Here is a letter from your sister and -- can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
` Yes , I can , ' answered the old woman .
` She lives in the castle on the Banka .
Her father lost a battle only a few days ago because you had stolen his sword from him , and the Sister of the Sun herself is almost dead of grief .
But , when you see her , stick a pin into the palm of her hand , and suck the drops of blood that flow .
Then she will grow calmer , and will know you again .
Only , beware ; for before you reach the castle on the Banka fearful things will happen . '
He thanked the old woman with tears of gladness for the good news she had given him , and continued his journey .
But he had not gone very far when , at a turn of the road , he met with two brothers , who were quarrelling over a piece of cloth .
` My good men , what are you fighting about ? '
said he .
` That cloth does not look worth much ! '
` Oh , it is ragged enough , ' answered they , ` but it was left us by our father , and if any man wraps it round him no one can see him ; and we each want it for our own . '
` Let me put it round me for a moment , ' said the youth , ` and then I will tell you whose it ought to be ! '
The brothers were pleased with this idea , and gave him the stuff ; but the moment he had thrown it over his shoulder he disappeared as completely as if he had never been there at all .
Meanwhile the young man walked briskly along , till he came up with two other men , who were disputing over a table-cloth .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he , stopping in front of them .
` If this cloth is spread on a table , ' answered they , ` the table is instantly covered with the most delicious food ; and we each want to have it . '
` Let me try the table-cloth , ' said the youth , ` and I will tell you whose it ought to be . '
The two men were quite pleased with this idea , and handed him the cloth .
He then hastily threw the first piece of stuff round his shoulders and vanished from sight , leaving the two men grieving over their own folly .
The young man had not walked far before he saw two more men standing by the road-side , both grasping the same stout staff , and sometimes one seemed on the point of getting it , and sometimes the other .
` What are you quarrelling about ?
You could cut a dozen sticks from the wood each just as good as that ! '
said the young man .
And as he spoke the fighters both stopped and looked at him .
` Ah !
you may think so , ' said one , ` but a blow from one end of this stick will kill a man , while a touch from the other end will bring him back to life .
You wo n't easily find another stick like that ! '
` No ; that is true , ' answered the young man .
` Let me just look at it , and I will tell you whose it ought to be . '
The men were pleased with the idea , and handed him the staff .
` It is very curious , certainly , ' said he ; ` but which end is it that restores people to life ?
After all , anyone can be killed by a blow from a stick if it is only hard enough ! '
But when he was shown the end he threw the stuff over his shoulders and vanished .
At last he saw another set of men , who were struggling for the possession of a pair of shoes .
` Why ca n't you leave that pair of old shoes alone ? '
said he .
` Why , you could not walk a yard in them ! '
` Yes , they are old enough , ' answered they ; ` but whoever puts them on and wishes himself at a particular place , gets there without going . '
` That sounds very clever , ' said the youth .
` Let me try them , and then I shall be able to tell you whose they ought to be . '
The idea pleased the men , and they handed him the shoes ; but the moment they were on his feet he cried : ' I wish to be in the castle on the Banka ! '
And before he knew it , he was there , and found the Sister of the Sun dying of grief .
He knelt down by her side , and pulling a pin he stuck it into the palm of her hand , so that a drop of blood gushed out .
This he sucked , as he had been told to do by the old woman , and immediately the princess came to herself , and flung her arms round his neck .
Then she told him all her story , and what had happened since the ship had sailed away without him .
` But the worst misfortune of all , ' she added , ` was a battle which my father lost because you had vanished with his magic sword ; and out of his whole army hardly one man was left . '
` Show me the battle-field , ' said he .
And she took him to a wild heath , where the dead were lying as they fell , waiting for burial .
One by one he touched them with the end of his staff , till at length they all stood before him .
Throughout the kingdom there was nothing but joy ; and THIS time the wedding was REALLY celebrated .
And the bridal pair lived happily in the castle on the Banka till they died .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Prince and the Three Fates Once upon a time a little boy was born to a king who ruled over a great country through which ran a wide river .
The king was nearly beside himself with joy , for he had always longed for a son to inherit his crown , and he sent messages to beg all the most powerful fairies to come and see this wonderful baby .
In an hour or two , so many were gathered round the cradle , that the child seemed in danger of being smothered ; but the king , who was watching the fairies eagerly , was disturbed to see them looking grave .
` Is there anything the matter ? '
he asked anxiously .
The fairies looked at him , and all shook their heads at once .
` He is a beautiful boy , and it is a great pity ; but what IS to happen WILL happen , ' said they .
` It is written in the books of fate that he must die , either by a crocodile , or a serpent , or by a dog .
If we could save him we would ; but that is beyond our power . '
And so saying they vanished .
For a time the king stood where he was , horror-stricken at what he had heard ; but , being of a hopeful nature , he began at once to invent plans to save the prince from the dreadful doom that awaited him .
He instantly sent for his master builder , and bade him construct a strong castle on the top of a mountain , which should be fitted with the most precious things from the king 's own palace , and every kind of toy a child could wish to play with .
And , besides , he gave the strictest orders that a guard should walk round the castle night and day .
For four or five years the baby lived in the castle alone with his nurses , taking his airings on the broad terraces , which were surrounded by walls , with a moat beneath them , and only a drawbridge to connect them with the outer world .
One day , when the prince was old enough to run quite fast by himself , he looked from the terrace across the moat , and saw a little soft fluffy ball of a dog jumping and playing on the other side .
Now , of course , all dogs had been kept from him for fear that the fairies ' prophecy should come true , and he had never even beheld one before .
So he turned to the page who was walking behind him , and said : ` What is that funny little thing which is running so fast over there ? '
` That is a dog , prince , ' answered the page .
` Well , bring me one like it , and we will see which can run the faster . '
And he watched the dog till it had disappeared round the corner .
The page was much puzzled to know what to do .
He had strict orders to refuse the prince nothing ; yet he remembered the prophecy , and felt that this was a serious matter .
At last he thought he had better tell the king the whole story , and let him decide the question .
` Oh , get him a dog if he wants one , ' said the king , ` he will only cry his heart out if he does not have it . '
So a puppy was found , exactly like the other ; they might have been twins , and perhaps they were .
Years went by , and the boy and the dog played together till the boy grew tall and strong .
The time came at last when he sent a message to his father , saying : ` Why do you keep me shut up here , doing nothing ?
I know all about the prophecy that was made at my birth , but I would far rather be killed at once than live an idle , useless life here .
So give me arms , and let me go , I pray you ; me and my dog too . '
And again the king listened to his wishes , and he and his dog were carried in a ship to the other side of the river , which was so broad here it might almost have been the sea .
A black horse was waiting for him , tied to a tree , and he mounted and rode away wherever his fancy took him , the dog always at his heels .
Never was any prince so happy as he , and he rode and rode till at length he came to a king 's palace .
The king who lived in it did not care about looking after his country , and seeing that his people lived cheerful and contented lives .
He spent his whole time in making riddles , and inventing plans which he had much better have let alone .
At the period when the young prince reached the kingdom he had just completed a wonderful house for his only child , a daughter .
It had seventy windows , each seventy feet from the ground , and he had sent the royal herald round the borders of the neighbouring kingdoms to proclaim that whoever could climb up the walls to the window of the princess should win her for his wife .
The fame of the princess 's beauty had spread far and wide , and there was no lack of princes who wished to try their fortune .
Very funny the palace must have looked each morning , with the dabs of different colour on the white marble as the princes were climbing up the walls .
But though some managed to get further than others , nobody was anywhere near the top .
They had already been spending several days in this manner when the young prince arrived , and as he was pleasant to look upon , and civil to talk to , they welcomed him to the house , which had been given to them , and saw that his bath was properly perfumed after his long journey .
` Where do you come from ? '
they said at last .
` And whose son are you ? '
But the young prince had reasons for keeping his own secret , and he answered : ` My father was master of the horse to the king of my country , and after my mother died he married another wife .
At first all went well , but as soon as she had babies of her own she hated me , and I fled , lest she should do me harm . '
The hearts of the other young men were touched as soon as they heard this story , and they did everything they could think of to make him forget his past sorrows .
` What are you doing here ? '
said the youth , one day .
` We spend our whole time climbing up the walls of the palace , trying to reach the windows of the princess , ' answered the young men ; ` but , as yet , no one has reached within ten feet of them . '
` Oh , let me try too , ' cried the prince ; ` but to-morrow I will wait and see what you do before I begin .
So the next day he stood where he could watch the young men go up , and he noted the places on the wall that seemed most difficult , and made up his mind that when his turn came he would go up some other way .
Day after day he was to be seen watching the wooers , till , one morning , he felt that he knew the plan of the walls by heart , and took his place by the side of the others .
Thanks to what he had learned from the failure of the rest , he managed to grasp one little rough projection after another , till at last , to the envy of his friends , he stood on the sill of the princess 's window .
Looking up from below , they saw a white hand stretched forth to draw him in .
Then one of the young men ran straight to the king 's palace , and said : ` The wall has been climbed , and the prize is won ! '
` By whom ? '
cried the king , starting up from his throne ; ` which of the princes may I claim as my son-in-law ? '
` The youth who succeeded in climbing to the princess 's window is not a prince at all , ' answered the young man .
` He is the son of the master of the horse to the great king who dwells across the river , and he fled from his own country to escape from the hatred of his stepmother . '
At this news the king was very angry , for it had never entered his head that anyone BUT a prince would seek to woo his daughter .
` Let him go back to the land whence he came , ' he shouted in wrath ; ` does he expect me to give my daughter to an exile ? '
And he began to smash the drinking vessels in his fury ; indeed , he quite frightened the young man , who ran hastily home to his friends , and told the youth what the king had said .
Now the princess , who was leaning from her window , heard his words and bade the messenger go back to the king her father and tell him that she had sworn a vow never to eat or drink again if the youth was taken from her .
The king was more angry than ever when he received this message , and ordered his guards to go at once to the palace and put the successful wooer to death ; but the princess threw herself between him and his murderers .
` Lay a finger on him , and I shall be dead before sunset , ' said she ; and as they saw that she meant it , they left the palace , and carried the tale to her father .
By this time the king 's anger was dying away , and he began to consider what his people would think of him if he broke the promise he had publicly given .
So he ordered the princess to be brought before him , and the young man also , and when they entered the throne room he was so pleased with the noble air of the victor that his wrath quite melted away , and he ran to him and embraced him .
` Tell me who you are ? '
he asked , when he had recovered himself a little , ` for I will never believe that you have not royal blood in your veins . '
But the prince still had his reasons for being silent , and only told the same story .
However , the king had taken such a fancy to the youth that he said no more , and the marriage took place the following day , and great herds of cattle and a large estate were given to the young couple .
After a little while the prince said to his wife : ` My life is in the hands of three creatures -- a crocodile , a serpent , and a dog . '
` Ah , how rash you are ! '
cried the princess , throwing her arms round his neck .
` If you know that , how can you have that horrid beast about you ?
I will give orders to have him killed at once . '
But the prince would not listen to her .
` Kill my dear little dog , who had been my playfellow since he was a puppy ? '
exclaimed he .
` Oh , never would I allow that . '
And all that the princess could get from him was that he would always wear a sword , and have somebody with him when he left the palace .
When the prince and princess had been married a few months , the prince heard that his stepmother was dead , and his father was old and ill , and longing to have his eldest son by his side again .
The young man could not remain deaf to such a message , and he took a tender farewell of his wife , and set out on his journey home .
It was a long way , and he was forced to rest often on the road , and so it happened that , one night , when he was sleeping in a city on the banks of the great river , a huge crocodile came silently up and made its way along a passage to the prince 's room .
Fortunately one of his guards woke up as it was trying to steal past them , and shut the crocodile up in a large hall , where a giant watched over it , never leaving the spot except during the night , when the crocodile slept .
And this went on for more than a month .
Now , when the prince found that he was not likely to leave his father 's kingdom again , he sent for his wife , and bade the messenger tell her that he would await her coming in the town on the banks of the great river .
This was the reason why he delayed his journey so long , and narrowly escaped being eaten by the crocodile .
During the weeks that followed the prince amused himself as best he could , though he counted the minutes to the arrival of the princess , and when she did come , he at once prepared to start for the court .
That very night , however , while he was asleep , the princess noticed something strange in one of the corners of the room .
It was a dark patch , and seemed , as she looked , to grow longer and longer , and to be moving slowly towards the cushions on which the prince was lying .
She shrank in terror , but , slight as was the noise , the thing heard it , and raised its head to listen .
Then she saw it was the long flat head of a serpent , and the recollection of the prophecy rushed into her mind .
Without waking her husband , she glided out of bed , and taking up a heavy bowl of milk which stood on a table , laid it on the floor in the path of the serpent -- for she knew that no serpent in the world can resist milk .
She held her breath as the snake drew near , and watched it throw up its head again as if it was smelling something nice , while its forky tongue darted out greedily .
At length its eyes fell upon the milk , and in an instant it was lapping it so fast that it was a wonder the creature did not choke , for it never took its head from the bowl as long as a drop was left in it .
After that it dropped on the ground and slept heavily .
This was what the princess had been waiting for , and catching up her husband 's sword , she severed the snake 's head from its body .
The morning after this adventure the prince and princess set out for the king 's palace , but found when they reached it , that he was already dead .
They gave him a magnificent burial , and then the prince had to examine the new laws which had been made in his absence , and do a great deal of business besides , till he grew quite ill from fatigue , and was obliged to go away to one of his palaces on the banks of the river , in order to rest .
Here he soon got better , and began to hunt , and to shoot wild duck with his bow ; and wherever he went , his dog , now grown very old , went with him .
One morning the prince and his dog were out as usual , and in chasing their game they drew near the bank of the river .
The prince was running at full speed after his dog when he almost fell over something that looked like a log of wood , which was lying in his path .
To his surprise a voice spoke to him , and he saw that the thing which he had taken for a branch was really a crocodile .
` You can not escape from me , ' it was saying , when he had gathered his senses again . '
I am your fate , and wherever you go , and whatever you do , you will always find me before you .
There is only one means of shaking off my power .
If you can dig a pit in the dry sand which will remain full of water , my spell will be broken .
If not death will come to you speedily .
I give you this one chance .
Now go . '
The young man walked sadly away , and when he reached the palace he shut himself into his room , and for the rest of the day refused to see anyone , not even his wife .
At sunset , however , as no sound could be heard through the door , the princess grew quite frightened , and made such a noise that the prince was forced to draw back the bolt and let her come in .
` How pale you look , ' she cried , ` has anything hurt you ?
Tell me , I pray you , what is the matter , for perhaps I can help ! '
So the prince told her the whole story , and of the impossible task given him by the crocodile .
` How can a sand hole remain full of water ? '
asked he .
` Of course , it will all run through .
The crocodile called it a `` chance '' ; but he might as well have dragged me into the river at once .
He said truly that I can not escape him . '
` Oh , if that is all , ' cried the princess , ' I can set you free myself , for my fairy godmother taught me to know the use of plants and in the desert not far from here there grows a little four-leaved herb which will keep the water in the pit for a whole year .
I will go in search of it at dawn , and you can begin to dig the hole as soon as you like .
To comfort her husband , the princess had spoken lightly and gaily ; but she knew very well she had no light task before her .
Still , she was full of courage and energy , and determined that , one way or another , her husband should be saved .
It was still starlight when she left the palace on a snow-white donkey , and rode away from the river straight to the west .
For some time she could see nothing before her but a flat waste of sand , which became hotter and hotter as the sun rose higher and higher .
Then a dreadful thirst seized her and the donkey , but there was no stream to quench it , and if there had been she would hardly have had time to stop , for she still had far to go , and must be back before evening , or else the crocodile might declare that the prince had not fulfilled his conditions .
So she spoke cheering words to her donkey , who brayed in reply , and the two pushed steadily on .
Oh !
how glad they both were when they caught sight of a tall rock in the distance .
They forgot that they were thirsty , and that the sun was hot ; and the ground seemed to fly under their feet , till the donkey stopped of its own accord in the cool shadow .
But though the donkey might rest the princess could not , for the plant , as she knew , grew on the very top of the rock , and a wide chasm ran round the foot of it .
Luckily she had brought a rope with her , and making a noose at one end , she flung it across with all her might .
The first time it slid back slowly into the ditch , and she had to draw it up , and throw it again , but at length the noose caught on something , the princess could not see what , and had to trust her whole weight to this little bridge , which might snap and let her fall deep down among the rocks .
And in that case her death was as certain as that of the prince .
But nothing so dreadful happened .
The princess got safely to the other side , and then became the worst part of her task .
As fast as she put her foot on a ledge of the rock the stone broke away from under her , and left her in the same place as before .
Meanwhile the hours were passing , and it was nearly noon .
The heart of the poor princess was filled with despair , but she would not give up the struggle .
She looked round till she saw a small stone above her which seemed rather stronger than the rest , and by only poising her foot lightly on those that lay between , she managed by a great effort to reach it .
In this way , with torn and bleeding hands , she gained the top ; but here such a violent wind was blowing that she was almost blinded with dust , and was obliged to throw herself on the ground , and feel about after the precious herb .
For a few terrible moments she thought that the rock was bare , and that her journey had been to no purpose .
Feel where she would , there was nothing but grit and stones , when , suddenly , her fingers touched something soft in a crevice .
It was a plant , that was clear ; but was it the right one ?
See she could not , for the wind was blowing more fiercely than ever , so she lay where she was and counted the leaves .
One , two , three -- yes !
yes !
there were four !
And plucking a leaf she held it safe in her hand while she turned , almost stunned by the wind , to go down the rock .
When once she was safely over the side all became still in a moment , and she slid down the rock so fast that it was only a wonder that she did not land in the chasm .
However , by good luck , she stopped quite close to her rope bridge and was soon across it .
The donkey brayed joyfully at the sight of her , and set off home at his best speed , never seeming to know that the earth under his feet was nearly as hot as the sun above him .
On the bank of the great river he halted , and the princess rushed up to where the prince was standing by the pit he had digged in the dry sand , with a huge water pot beside it .
A little way off the crocodile lay blinking in the sun , with his sharp teeth and whity-yellow jaws wide open .
At a signal from the princess the prince poured the water in the hole , and the moment it reached the brim the princess flung in the four-leaved plant .
Would the charm work , or would the water trickle away slowly through the sand , and the prince fall a victim to that horrible monster ?
For half an hour they stood with their eyes rooted to the spot , but the hole remained as full as at the beginning , with the little green leaf floating on the top .
Then the prince turned with a shout of triumph , and the crocodile sulkily plunged into the river .
The prince had escape for ever the second of his three fates !
He stood there looking after the crocodile , and rejoicing that he was free , when he was startled by a wild duck which flew past them , seeking shelter among the rushes that bordered the edge of the stream .
In another instant his dog dashed by in hot pursuit , and knocked heavily against his master 's legs .
The prince staggered , lost his balance and fell backwards into the river , where the mud and the rushes caught him and held him fast .
He shrieked for help to his wife , who came running ; and luckily brought her rope with her .
The poor old dog was drowned , but the prince was pulled to shore .
` My wife , ' he said , ` has been stronger than my fate . '
-LSB- Adapted from Les Contes Populaires de l'Egypte Ancienne . -RSB-
The Fox and the Lapp Once upon a time a fox lay peeping out of his hole , watching the road that ran by at a little distance , and hoping to see something that might amuse him , for he was feeling very dull and rather cross .
For a long while he watched in vain ; everything seemed asleep , and not even a bird stirred overhead .
The fox grew crosser than ever , and he was just turning away in disgust from his place when he heard the sound of feet coming over the snow .
He crouched eagerly down at the edge of the road and said to himself : ' I wonder what would happen if I were to pretend to be dead !
This is a man driving a reindeer sledge , I know the tinkling of the harness .
And at any rate I shall have an adventure , and that is always something ! '
So he stretched himself out by the side of the road , carefully choosing a spot where the driver could not help seeing him , yet where the reindeer would not tread on him ; and all fell out just as he had expected .
The sledge-driver pulled up sharply , as his eyes lighted on the beautiful animal lying stiffly beside him , and jumping out he threw the fox into the bottom of the sledge , where the goods he was carrying were bound tightly together by ropes .
The fox did not move a muscle though his bones were sore from the fall , and the driver got back to his seat again and drove on merrily .
But before they had gone very far , the fox , who was near the edge , contrived to slip over , and when the Laplander saw him stretched out on the snow he pulled up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the other sledges that was fastened behind , for it was market-day at the nearest town , and the man had much to sell .
They drove on a little further , when some noise in the forest made the man turn his head , just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thump on to the frozen snow .
` That beast is bewitched ! '
he said to himself , and then he threw the fox into the last sledge of all , which had a cargo of fishes .
This was exactly what the cunning creature wanted , and he wriggled gently to the front and bit the cord which tied the sledge to the one before it so that it remained standing in the middle of the road .
Now there were so many sledges that the Lapp did not notice for a long while that one was missing ; indeed , he would have entered the town without knowing if snow had not suddenly begun to fall .
Then he got down to secure more firmly the cloths that kept his goods dry , and going to the end of the long row , discovered that the sledge containing the fish and the fox was missing .
He quickly unharnessed one of his reindeer and rode back along the way he had come , to find the sledge standing safe in the middle of the road ; but as the fox had bitten off the cord close to the noose there was no means of moving it away .
The fox meanwhile was enjoying himself mightily .
As soon as he had loosened the sledge , he had taken his favourite fish from among the piles neatly arranged for sale , and had trotted off to the forest with it in his mouth .
By-and-by he met a bear , who stopped and said : ` Where did you find that fish , Mr. Fox ? '
` Oh , not far off , ' answered he ; ' I just stuck my tail in the stream close by the place where the elves dwell , and the fish hung on to it of itself . '
` Dear me , ' snarled the bear , who was hungry and not in a good temper , ` if the fish hung on to your tail , I suppose he will hang on to mine . '
` Yes , certainly , grandfather , ' replied the fox , ` if you have patience to suffer what I suffered . '
` Of course I can , ' replied the bear , ` what nonsense you talk !
Show me the way . '
So the fox led him to the bank of a stream , which , being in a warm place , had only lightly frozen in places , and was at this moment glittering in the spring sunshine .
` The elves bathe here , ' he said , ` and if you put in your tail the fish will catch hold of it .
But it is no use being in a hurry , or you will spoil everything . '
Then he trotted off , but only went out of sight of the bear , who stood still on the bank with his tail deep in the water .
Soon the sun set and it grew very cold and the ice formed rapidly , and the bear 's tail was fixed as tight as if a vice had held it ; and when the fox saw that everything had happened just as he had planned it , he called out loudly : ` Be quick , good people , and come with your bows and spears .
A bear has been fishing in your brook ! '
And in a moment the whole place was full of little creatures each one with a tiny bow and a spear hardly big enough for a baby ; but both arrows and spears could sting , as the bear knew very well , and in his fright he gave such a tug to his tail that it broke short off , and he rolled away into the forest as fast as his legs could carry him .
At this sight the fox held his sides for laughing , and then scampered away in another direction .
By-and-by he came to a fir tree , and crept into a hole under the root .
After that he did something very strange .
Taking one of his hind feet between his two front paws , he said softly : ` What would you do , my foot , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would run so quickly that he should not catch you . '
` What would you do , mine ear , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would listen so hard that I should hear all his plans . '
` What would you do , my nose , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would smell so sharply that I should know from afar that he was coming . '
` What would you do , my tail , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would steer you so straight a course that you would soon be beyond his reach .
Let us be off ; I feel as if danger was near . '
But the fox was comfortable where he was , and did not hurry himself to take his tail 's advice .
And before very long he found he was too late , for the bear had come round by another path , and guessing where his enemy was began to scratch at the roots of the tree .
The fox made himself as small as he could , but a scrap of his tail peeped out , and the bear seized it and held it tight .
Then the fox dug his claws into the ground , but he was not strong enough to pull against the bear , and slowly he was dragged forth and his body flung over the bear 's neck .
In this manner they set out down the road , the fox 's tail being always in the bear 's mouth .
After they had gone some way , they passed a tree-stump , on which a bright coloured woodpecker was tapping .
` Ah !
those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gay colours , ' sighed the fox .
` What are you saying , old fellow ? '
asked the bear .
` I ?
Oh , I was saying nothing , ' answered the fox drearily .
` Just carry me to your cave and eat me up as quick as you can . '
The bear was silent , and thought of his supper ; and the two continued their journey till they reached another tree with a woodpecker tapping on it .
` Ah !
those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gay colours , ' said the fox again to himself .
` Could n't you paint me too ? '
asked the bear suddenly .
But the fox shook his head ; for he was always acting , even if no one was there to see him do it .
` You bear pain so badly , ' he replied , in a thoughtful voice , ` and you are impatient besides , and could never put up with all that is necessary .
Why , you would first have to dig a pit , and then twist ropes of willow , and drive in posts and fill the hole with pitch , and , last of all , set it on fire .
Oh , no ; you would never be able to do all that . '
` It does not matter a straw how hard the work is , ' answered the bear eagerly , ' I will do it every bit . '
And as he spoke he began tearing up the earth so fast that soon a deep pit was ready , deep enough to hold him .
` That is all right , ' said the fox at last , ' I see I was mistaken in you .
Now sit here , and I will bind you . '
So the bear sat down on the edge of the pit , and the fox sprang on his back , which he crossed with the willow ropes , and then set fire to the pitch .
It burnt up in an instant , and caught the bands of willow and the bear 's rough hair ; but he did not stir , for he thought that the fox was rubbing the bright colours into his skin , and that he would soon be as beautiful as a whole meadow of flowers .
But when the fire grew hotter still he moved uneasily from one foot to the other , saying , imploringly : ` It is getting rather warm , old man . '
But all the answer he got was : ' I thought you would never be able to suffer pain like those little birds . '
The bear did not like being told that he was not as brave as a bird , so he set his teeth and resolved to endure anything sooner than speak again ; but by this time the last willow band had burned through , and with a push the fox sent his victim tumbling into the grass , and ran off to hide himself in the forest .
After a while he stole cautiously and found , as he expected , nothing left but a few charred bones .
These he picked up and put in a bag , which he slung over his back .
By-and-by he met a Lapp driving his team of reindeer along the road , and as he drew near , the fox rattled the bones gaily .
` That sounds like silver or gold , ' thought the man to himself .
And he said politely to the fox : ` Good-day , friend !
What have you got in your bag that makes such a strange sound ? '
` All the wealth my father left me , ' answered the fox .
` Do you feel inclined to bargain ? '
` Well , I do n't mind , ' replied the Lapp , who was a prudent man , and did not wish the fox to think him too eager ; ` but show me first what money you have got . '
` Ah , but I ca n't do that , ' answered the fox , ` my bag is sealed up .
But if you will give me those three reindeer , you shall take it as it is , with all its contents . '
The Lapp did not quite like it , but the fox spoke with such an air that his doubts melted away .
He nodded , and stretched out his hand ; the fox put the bag into it , and unharnassed the reindeer he had chosen .
` Oh , I forgot ! '
he exclaimed , turning round , as he was about to drive them in the opposite direction , ` you must be sure not to open the bag until you have gone at least five miles , right on the other side of those hills out there .
If you do , you will find that all the gold and silver has changed into a parcel of charred bones . '
Then he whipped up his reindeer , and was soon out of sight .
For some time the Lapp was satisfied with hearing the bones rattle , and thinking to himself what a good bargain he had made , and of all the things he would buy with the money .
But , after a bit , this amusement ceased to content him , and besides , what was the use of planning when you did not know for certain how rich you were ?
Perhaps there might be a great deal of silver and only a little gold in the bag ; or a great deal of gold , and only a little silver .
Who could tell ?
He would not , of course , take the money out to count it , for that might bring him bad luck .
But there could be no harm in just one peep !
So he slowly broke the seal , and untied the strings , and , behold , a heap of burnt bones lay before him !
In a minute he knew he had been tricked , and flinging the bag to the ground in a rage , he ran after the fox as fast as his snow-shoes would carry him .
Now the fox had guessed exactly what would happen , and was on the look out .
Directly he saw the little speck coming towards him , he wished that the man 's snow-shoes might break , and that very instant the Lapp 's shoes snapped in two .
The Lapp did now know that this was the fox 's work , but he had to stop and fetch one of his other reindeer , which he mounted , and set off again in pursuit of his enemy .
The fox soon heard him coming , and this time he wished that the reindeer might fall and break its leg .
And so it did ; and the man felt it was a hopeless chase , and that he was no match for the fox .
So the fox drove on in peace till he reached the cave where all his stores were kept , and then he began to wonder whom he could get to help him kill his reindeer , for though he could steal reindeer he was too small to kill them .
` After all , it will be quite easy , ' thought he , and he bade a squirrel , who was watching him on a tree close by , take a message to all the robber beasts of the forest , and in less than half an hour a great crashing of branches was heard , and bears , wolves , snakes , mice , frogs , and other creatures came pressing up to the cave .
When they heard why they had been summoned , they declared themselves ready each one to do his part .
The bear took his crossbow from his neck and shot the reindeer in the chin ; and , from that day to this , every reindeer has a mark in that same spot , which is always known as the bear 's arrow .
The wolf shot him in the thigh , and the sign of his arrow still remains ; and so with the mouse and the viper and all the rest , even the frog ; and at the last the reindeer all died .
And the fox did nothing , but looked on . '
I really must go down to the brook and wash myself , ' said he -LRB- though he was perfectly clean -RRB- , and he went under the bank and hid himself behind a stone .
From there he set up the most frightful shrieks , so that the animals fled away in all directions .
Only the mouse and the ermine remained where they were , for they thought that they were much too small to be noticed .
The fox continued his shrieks till he felt sure that the animals must have got to a safe distance ; then he crawled out of his hiding-place and went to the bodies of the reindeer , which he now had all to himself .
He gathered a bundle of sticks for a fire , and was just preparing to cook a steak , when his enemy , the Lapp , came up , panting with haste and excitement .
` What are you doing there ? '
cried he ; ` why did you palm off those bones on me ?
And why , when you had got the reindeer , did you kill them ? '
` Dear brother , ' answered the fox with a sob , ` do not blame me for this misfortune .
It is my comrades who have slain them in spite of my prayers . '
The man made no reply , for the white fur of the ermine , who was crouching with the mouse behind some stones , had just caught his eye .
He hastily seized the iron hook which hung over the fire and flung it at the little creature ; but the ermine was too quick for him , and the hook only touched the top of its tail , and that has remained black to this day .
As for the mouse , the Lapp threw a half-burnt stick after him , and though it was not enough to hurt him , his beautiful white skin was smeared all over with it , and all the washing in the world would not make him clean again .
And the man would have been wiser if he had let the ermine and the mouse alone , for when he turned round again he found he was alone .
Directly the fox noticed that his enemy 's attention had wandered from himself he watched his chance , and stole softly away till he had reached a clump of thick bushes , when he ran as fast as he could , till he reached a river , where a man was mending his boat .
` Oh , I wish , I wish , I had a boat to mend too ! '
he cried , sitting up on his hind-legs and looking into the man 's face .
` Stop your silly chatter ! '
answered the man crossly , ` or I will give you a bath in the river . '
` Oh , I wish , I do wish , I had a boat to mend , ' cried the fox again , as if he had not heard .
And the man grew angry and seized him by the tail , and threw him far out in the stream close to the edge of an island ; which was just what the fox wanted .
He easily scrambled up , and sitting on the top , he called : ` Hasten , hasten , O fishes , and carry me to the other side ! '
And the fishes left the stones where they had been sleeping , and the pools where they had been feeding , and hurried to see who could get to the island first . '
I have won , ' shouted the pike .
` Jump on my back , dear fox , and you will find yourself in a trice on the opposite shore . '
` No , thank you , ' answered the fox , ` your back is much too weak for me .
I should break it . '
` Try mine , ' said the eel , who had wriggled to the front .
` No , thank you , ' replied the fox again , ' I should slip over your head and be drowned . '
` You wo n't slip on MY back , ' said the perch , coming forward .
` No ; but you are really TOO rough , ' returned the fox .
` Well , you can have no fault to find with ME , ' put in the trout .
` Good gracious !
are YOU here ? '
exclaimed the fox .
` But I 'm afraid to trust myself to you either . '
At this moment a fine salmon swam slowly up .
` Ah , yes , you are the person I want , ' said the fox ; ` but come near , so that I may get on your back , without wetting my feet . '
So the salmon swam close under the island , and when he was touching it the fox seized him in his claws and drew him out of the water , and put him on a spit , while he kindled a fire to cook him by .
When everything was ready , and the water in the pot was getting hot , he popped him in , and waited till he thought the salmon was nearly boiled .
But as he stooped down the water gave a sudden fizzle , and splashed into the fox 's eyes , blinding him .
He started backwards with a cry of pain , and sat still for some minutes , rocking himself to and fro .
When he was a little better he rose and walked down a road till he met a grouse , who stopped and asked what was the matter .
` Have you a pair of eyes anywhere about you ? '
asked the fox politely .
` No , I am afraid I have n't , ' answered the grouse , and passed on .
A little while after the fox heard the buzzing of an early bee , whom a gleam of sun had tempted out .
` Do you happen to have an extra pair of eyes anywhere ? '
asked the fox . '
I am sorry to say I have only those I am using , ' replied the bee .
And the fox went on till he nearly fell over an asp who was gliding across the road . '
I should be SO glad if you would tell me where I could get a pair of eyes , ' said the fox . '
I suppose you do n't happen to have any you could lend me ? '
` Well , if you only want them for a short time , perhaps I could manage , ' answered the asp ; ` but I ca n't do without them for long . '
` Oh , it is only for a very short time that I need them , ' said the fox ; ' I have a pair of my own just behind that hill , and when I find them I will bring yours back to you .
Perhaps you will keep these till them . '
So he took the eyes out of his own head and popped them into the head of the asp , and put the asp 's eyes in their place .
As he was running off he cried over his shoulder : ` As long as the world lasts the asps ' eyes will go down in the heads of foxes from generation to generation . '
And so it has been ; and if you look at the eyes of an asp you will see that they are all burnt ; and though thousands and thousands of years have gone by since the fox was going about playing tricks upon everybody he met , the asp still bears the traces of the day when the sly creature cooked the salmon .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Kisa the Cat Once upon a time there lived a queen who had a beautiful cat , the colour of smoke , with china-blue eyes , which she was very fond of .
The cat was constantly with her , and ran after her wherever she went , and even sat up proudly by her side when she drove out in her fine glass coach .
` Oh , pussy , ' said the queen one day , ` you are happier than I am !
For you have a dear kitten just like yourself , and I have nobody to play with but you . '
` Do n't cry , ' answered the cat , laying her paw on her mistress 's arm .
` Crying never does any good .
I will see what can be done . '
The cat was as good as her word .
As soon as she returned from her drive she trotted off to the forest to consult a fairy who dwelt there , and very soon after the queen had a little girl , who seemed made out of snow and sunbeams .
The queen was delighted , and soon the baby began to take notice of the kitten as she jumped about the room , and would not go to sleep at all unless the kitten lay curled up beside her .
Two or three months went by , and though the baby was still a baby , the kitten was fast becoming a cat , and one evening when , as usual , the nurse came to look for her , to put her in the baby 's cot , she was nowhere to be found .
What a hunt there was for that kitten , to be sure !
The servants , each anxious to find her , as the queen was certain to reward the lucky man , searched in the most impossible places .
Boxes were opened that would hardly have held the kitten 's paw ; books were taken from bookshelves , lest the kitten should have got behind them , drawers were pulled out , for perhaps the kitten might have got shut in .
But it was all no use .
The kitten had plainly run away , and nobody could tell if it would ever choose to come back .
Years passed away , and one day , when the princess was playing ball in the garden , she happened to throw her ball farther than usual , and it fell into a clump of rose-bushes .
The princess of course ran after it at once , and she was stooping down to feel if it was hidden in the long grass , when she heard a voice calling her : ` Ingibjorg !
Ingibjorg ! '
it said , ` have you forgotten me ?
I am Kisa , your sister ! '
` But I never HAD a sister , ' answered Ingibjorg , very much puzzled ; for she knew nothing of what had taken place so long ago .
` Do n't you remember how I always slept in your cot beside you , and how you cried till I came ?
But girls have no memories at all !
Why , I could find my way straight up to that cot this moment , if I was once inside the palace . '
` Why did you go away then ? '
asked the princess .
But before Kisa could answer , Ingibjorg 's attendants arrived breathless on the scene , and were so horrified at the sight of a strange cat , that Kisa plunged into the bushes and went back to the forest .
The princess was very much vexed with her ladies-in-waiting for frightening away her old playfellow , and told the queen who came to her room every evening to bid her good-night .
` Yes , it is quite true what Kisa said , ' answered the queen ; ' I should have liked to see her again .
Perhaps , some day , she will return , and then you must bring her to me . '
Next morning it was very hot , and the princess declared that she must go and play in the forest , where it was always cool , under the big shady trees .
As usual , her attendants let her do anything she pleased , and sitting down on a mossy bank where a little stream tinkled by , soon fell sound asleep .
The princess saw with delight that they would pay no heed to her , and wandered on and on , expecting every moment to see some fairies dancing round a ring , or some little brown elves peeping at her from behind a tree .
But , alas !
she met none of these ; instead , a horrible giant came out of his cave and ordered her to follow him .
The princess felt much afraid , as he was so big and ugly , and began to be sorry that she had not stayed within reach of help ; but as there was no use in disobeying the giant , she walked meekly behind .
They went a long way , and Ingibjorg grew very tired , and at length began to cry . '
I do n't like girls who make horrid noises , ' said the giant , turning round .
` But if you WANT to cry , I will give you something to cry for . '
And drawing an axe from his belt , he cut off both her feet , which he picked up and put in his pocket .
Then he went away .
Poor Ingibjorg lay on the grass in terrible pain , and wondering if she should stay there till she died , as no one would know where to look for her .
How long it was since she had set out in the morning she could not tell -- it seemed years to her , of course ; but the sun was still high in the heavens when she heard the sound of wheels , and then , with a great effort , for her throat was parched with fright and pain , she gave a shout . '
I am coming ! '
was the answer ; and in another moment a cart made its way through the trees , driven by Kisa , who used her tail as a whip to urge the horse to go faster .
Directly Kisa saw Ingibjorg lying there , she jumped quickly down , and lifting the girl carefully in her two front paws , laid her upon some soft hay , and drove back to her own little hut .
In the corner of the room was a pile of cushions , and these Kisa arranged as a bed .
Ingibjorg , who by this time was nearly fainting from all she had gone through , drank greedily some milk , and then sank back on the cushions while Kisa fetched some dried herbs from a cupboard , soaked them in warm water and tied them on the bleeding legs .
The pain vanished at once , and Ingibjorg looked up and smiled at Kisa .
` You will go to sleep now , ' said the cat , ` and you will not mind if I leave you for a little while .
I will lock the door , and no one can hurt you . '
But before she had finished the princess was asleep .
Then Kisa got into the cart , which was standing at the door , and catching up the reins , drove straight to the giant 's cave .
Leaving her cart behind some trees , Kisa crept gently up to the open door , and , crouching down , listened to what the giant was telling his wife , who was at supper with him .
` The first day that I can spare I shall just go back and kill her , ' he said ; ` it would never do for people in the forest to know that a mere girl can defy me ! '
And he and his wife were so busy calling Ingibjorg all sorts of names for her bad behaviour , that they never noticed Kisa stealing into a dark corner , and upsetting a whole bag of salt into the great pot before the fire .
` Dear me , how thirsty I am ! '
cried the giant by-and-by .
` So am I , ' answered the wife . '
I do wish I had not taken that last spoonful of broth ; I am sure something was wrong with it . '
` If I do n't get some water I shall die , ' went on the giant .
And rushing out of the cave , followed by his wife , he ran down the path which led to the river .
Then Kisa entered the hut , and lost no time in searching every hole till she came upon some grass , under which Ingibjorg 's feet were hidden , and putting them in her cart , drove back again to her own hut .
Ingibjorg was thankful to see her , for she had lain , too frightened to sleep , trembling at every noise .
` Oh , is it you ? '
she cried joyfully , as Kisa turned the key .
And the cat came in , holding up the two neat little feet in their silver slippers .
` In two minutes they shall be as tight as they ever were ! '
said Kisa .
And taking some strings of the magic grass which the giant had carelessly heaped on them , she bound the feet on to the legs above .
` Of course you wo n't be able to walk for some time ; you must not expect THAT , ' she continued .
` But if you are very good , perhaps , in about a week , I may carry you home again . '
And so she did ; and when the cat drove the cart up to the palace gate , lashing the horse furiously with her tail , and the king and queen saw their lost daughter sitting beside her , they declared that no reward could be too great for the person who had brought her out of the giant 's hands .
` We will talk about that by-and-by , ' said the cat , as she made her best bow , and turned her horse 's head .
The princess was very unhappy when Kisa left her without even bidding her farewell .
She would neither eat nor drink , nor take any notice of all the beautiful dresses her parents bought for her .
` She will die , unless we can make her laugh , ' one whispered to the other .
` Is there anything in the world that we have left untried ? '
` Nothing except marriage , ' answered the king .
And he invited all the handsomest young men he could think of to the palace , and bade the princess choose a husband from among them .
It took her some time to decide which she admired the most , but at last she fixed upon a young prince , whose eyes were like the pools in the forest , and his hair of bright gold .
The king and the queen were greatly pleased , as the young man was the son of a neighbouring king , and they gave orders that a splendid feast should be got ready .
When the marriage was over , Kisa suddenly stood before them , and Ingibjorg rushed forward and clasped her in her arms . '
I have come to claim my reward , ' said the cat .
` Let me sleep for this night at the foot of your bed . '
` Is that ALL ? '
asked Ingibjorg , much disappointed .
` It is enough , ' answered the cat .
And when the morning dawned , it was no cat that lay upon the bed , but a beautiful princess .
` My mother and I were both enchanted by a spiteful fairy , ' said she , ` we could not free ourselves till we had done some kindly deed that had never been wrought before .
My mother died without ever finding a chance of doing anything new , but I took advantage of the evil act of the giant to make you as whole as ever . '
Then they were all more delighted than before , and the princess lived in the court until she , too , married , and went away to govern one of her own .
-LSB- Adapted from Neuislandischen Volksmarchen . -RSB-
The Lion and the Cat Far away on the other side of the world there lived , long ago , a lion and his younger brother , the wild cat , who were so fond of each other that they shared the same hut .
The lion was much the bigger and stronger of the two -- indeed , he was much bigger and stronger than any of the beasts that dwelt in the forest ; and , besides , he could jump father and run faster than all the rest .
If strength and swiftness could gain him a dinner he was sure never to be without one , but when it came to cunning , both the grizzly bear and the serpent could get the better of him , and he was forced to call in the help of the wild cat .
Now the young wild cat had a lovely golden ball , so beautiful that you could hardly look at it except through a piece of smoked glass , and he kept it hidden in the thick fur muff that went round his neck .
A very large old animal , since dead , had given it to him when he was hardly more than a baby , and had told him never to part with it , for as long as he kept it no harm could ever come near him .
In general the wild cat did not need to use his ball , for the lion was fond of hunting , and could kill all the food that they needed ; but now and then his life would have been in danger had it not been for the golden ball .
One day the two brothers started to hunt at daybreak , but as the cat could not run nearly as fast as the lion , he had quite a long start .
At least he THOUGHT it was a long one , but in a very few bounds and springs the lion reached his side .
` There is a bear sitting on that tree , ' he whispered softly .
` He is only waiting for us to pass , to drop down on my back . '
` Ah , you are so big that he does not see I am behind you , ' answered the wild cat .
And , touching the ball , he just said : ` Bear , die ! '
And the bear tumbled dead out of the tree , and rolled over just in front of them .
For some time they trotted on without any adventures , till just as they were about to cross a strip of long grass on the edge of the forest , the lion 's quick ears detected a faint rustling noise .
` That is a snake , ' he cried , stopping short , for he was much more afraid of snakes than of bears .
` Oh , it is all right , ' answered the cat .
` Snake , die ! '
And the snake died , and the two brothers skinned it .
They then folded the skin up into a very small parcel , and the cat tucked it into his mane , for snakes ' skins can do all sorts of wonderful things , if you are lucky enough to have one of them .
All this time they had had no dinner , for the snake 's flesh was not nice , and the lion did not like eating bear -- perhaps because he never felt sure that the bear was REALLY dead , and would not jump up alive when his enemy went near him .
Most people are afraid of SOME thing , and bears and serpents were the only creatures that caused the lion 's heart to tremble .
So the two brothers set off again and soon reached the side of a hill where some fine deer were grazing .
` Kill one of those deer for your own dinner , ' said the boy-brother , ` but catch me another alive .
I want him . '
The lion at once sprang towards them with a loud roar , but the deer bounded away , and they were all three soon lost to sight .
The cat waited for a long while , but finding that the lion did not return , went back to the house where they lived .
It was quite dark when the lion came home , where his brother was sitting curled up in one corner .
` Did you catch the deer for me ? '
asked the boy-brother , springing up .
` Well , no , ' replied the man-brother .
` The fact is , that I did not get up to them till we had run half way across the world and left the wind far behind us .
Think what a trouble it would have been to drag it here !
So -- I just ate them both . '
The cat said nothing , but he did not feel that he loved his big brother .
He had thought a great deal about that deer , and had meant to get on his back to ride him as a horse , and go to see all the wonderful places the lion talked to him about when he was in a good temper .
The more he thought of it the more sulky he grew , and in the morning , when the lion said that it was time for them to start to hunt , the cat told him that he might kill the bear and snake by himself , as HE had a headache , and would rather stay at home .
The little fellow knew quite well that the lion would not dare to go out without him and his ball for fear of meeting a bear or a snake .
The quarrel went on , and for many days neither of the brothers spoke to each other , and what made them still more cross was , that they could get very little to eat , and we know that people are often cross when they are hungry .
At last it occurred to the lion that if he could only steal the magic ball he could kill bears and snakes for himself , and then the cat might be as sulky as he liked for anything that it would matter .
But how was the stealing to be done ?
The cat had the ball hung round his neck day and night , and he was such a light sleeper that it was useless to think of taking it while he slept .
No !
the only thing was to get him to lend it of his own accord , and after some days the lion -LRB- who was not at all clever -RRB- hit upon a plan that he thought would do .
` Dear me , how dull it is here ! '
said the lion one afternoon , when the rain was pouring down in such torrents that , however sharp your eyes or your nose might be , you could not spy a single bird or beast among the bushes .
` Dear me , how dull , how dreadfully dull I am .
Could n't we have a game of catch with that golden ball of yours ? ' '
I do n't care about playing catch , it does not amuse me , ' answered the cat , who was as cross as ever ; for no cat , even to this day , ever forgets an injury done to him .
` Well , then , lend me the ball for a little , and I will play by myself , ' replied the lion , stretching out a paw as he spoke .
` You ca n't play in the rain , and if you did , you would only lose it in the bushes , ' said the cat .
` Oh , no , I wo n't ; I will play in here .
Do n't be so ill-natured . '
And with a very bad grace the cat untied the string and threw the golden ball into the lion 's lap , and composed himself to sleep again .
For a long while the lion tossed it up and down gaily , feeling that , however sound asleep the boy-brother might LOOK , he was sure to have one eye open ; but gradually he began to edge closer to the opening , and at last gave such a toss that the ball went up high into the air , and he could not see what became of it .
` Oh , how stupid of me ! '
he cried , as the cat sprang up angrily , ` let us go at once and search for it .
It ca n't really have fallen very far . '
But though they searched that day and the next , and the next after that , they never found it , because it never came down .
After the loss of his ball the cat refused to live with the lion any longer , but wandered away to the north , always hoping he might meet with his ball again .
But months passed , and years passed , and though he travelled over hundreds of miles , he never saw any traces of it .
At length , when he was getting quite old , he came to a place unlike any that he had ever seen before , where a big river rolled right to the foot of some high mountains .
The ground all about the river bank was damp and marshy , and as no cat likes to wet its feet , this one climbed a tree that rose high above the water , and thought sadly of his lost ball , which would have helped him out of this horrible place .
Suddenly he saw a beautiful ball , for all the world like his own , dangling from a branch of the tree he was on .
He longed to get at it ; but was the branch strong enough to bear his weight ?
It was no use , after all he had done , getting drowned in the water .
However , it could do no harm , if he was to go a little way ; he could always manage to get back somehow .
So he stretched himself at full length upon the branch , and wriggled his body cautiously along .
To his delight it seemed thick and stout .
Another movement , and , by stretching out his paw , he would be able to draw the string towards him , when the branch gave a loud crack , and the cat made haste to wriggle himself back the way he had come .
But when cats make up their minds to do anything they generally DO it ; and this cat began to look about to see if there was really no way of getting at his ball .
Yes !
there was , and it was much surer than the other , though rather more difficult .
Above the bough where the ball was hung was another bough much thicker , which he knew could not break with his weight ; and by holding on tight to this with all his four paws , he could just manage to touch the ball with his tail .
He would thus be able to whisk the ball to and fro till , by-and-by , the string would become quite loose , and it would fall to the ground .
It might take some time , but the lion 's little brother was patient , like most cats .
Well , it all happened just as the cat intended it should , and when the ball dropped on the ground the cat ran down the tree like lightning , and , picking it up , tucked it away in the snake 's skin round his neck .
Then he began jumping along the shore of the Big Water from one place to another , trying to find a boat , or even a log of wood , that would take him across .
But there was nothing ; only , on the other side , he saw two girls cooking , and though he shouted to them at the top of his voice , they were too far off to hear what he said .
And , what was worse , the ball suddenly fell out of its snake 's skin bag right into the river .
Now , it is not at all an uncommon thing for balls to tumble into rivers , but in that case they generally either fall to the bottom and stay there , or else bob about on the top of the water close to where they first touched it .
But this ball , instead of doing either of these things , went straight across to the other side , and there one of the girls saw it when she stooped to dip some water into her pail .
` Oh !
what a lovely ball ! '
cried she , and tried to catch it in her pail ; but the ball always kept bobbing just out of her reach .
` Come and help me ! '
she called to her sister , and after a long while they had the ball safe inside the pail .
They were delighted with their new toy , and one or the other held it in her hand till bedtime came , and then it was a long time before they could make up their minds where it would be safest for the night .
At last they locked it in a cupboard in one corner of their room , and as there was no hole anywhere the ball could not possibly get out .
After that they went to sleep .
In the morning the first thing they both did was to run to the cupboard and unlock it , but when the door opened they started back , for , instead of the ball , there stood a handsome young man .
` Ladies , ' he said , ` how can I thank you for what you have done for me ?
Long , long ago , I was enchanted by a wicked fairy , and condemned to keep the shape of a ball till I should meet with two maidens , who would take me to their own home .
But where was I to meet them ?
For hundreds of years I have lived in the depths of the forest , where nothing but wild beasts ever came , and it was only when the lion threw me into the sky that I was able to fall to earth near this river .
Where there is a river , sooner or later people will come ; so , hanging myself on a tree , I watched and waited .
For a moment I lost heart when I fell once more into the hands of my old master the wild cat , but my hopes rose again as I saw he was making for the river bank opposite where you were standing .
That was my chance , and I took it .
And now , ladies , I have only to say that , if ever I can do anything to help you , go to the top of that high mountain and knock three times at the iron door at the north side , and I will come to you . '
So , with a low bow , he vanished from before them , leaving the maidens weeping at having lost in one moment both the ball and the prince .
-LSB- Adapted from North American Indian Legends . -RSB-
Which was the Foolishest ?
In a little village that stood on a wide plain , where you could see the sun from the moment he rose to the moment he set , there lived two couples side by side .
The men , who worked under the same master , were quite good friends , but the wives were always quarrelling , and the subject they quarrelled most about was -- which of the two had the stupidest husband .
Unlike most women -- who think that anything that belongs to them must be better than what belongs to anyone else -- each thought her husband the more foolish of the two .
` You should just see what he does ! '
one said to her neighbour .
` He puts on the baby 's frock upside down , and , one day , I found him trying to feed her with boiling soup , and her mouth was scalded for days after .
Then he picks up stones in the road and sows them instead of potatoes , and one day he wanted to go into the garden from the top window , because he declared it was a shorter way than through the door . '
` That is bad enough , of course , ' answered the other ; ` but it is really NOTHING to what I have to endure every day from MY husband .
If , when I am busy , I ask him to go and feed the poultry , he is certain to give them some poisonous stuff instead of their proper food , and when I visit the yard next I find them all dead .
Once he even took my best bonnet , when I had gone away to my sick mother , and when I came back I found he had given it to the hen to lay her eggs in .
And you know yourself that , only last week , when I sent him to buy a cask of butter , he returned driving a hundred and fifty ducks which someone had induced him to take , and not one of them would lay . '
` Yes , I am afraid he IS trying , ' replied the first ; ` but let us put them to the proof , and see which of them is the most foolish . '
So , about the time that she expected her husband home from work , she got out her spinning-wheel , and sat busily turning it , taking care not even to look up from her work when the man came in .
For some minutes he stood with his mouth open watching her , and as she still remained silent , he said at last : ` Have you gone mad , wife , that you sit spinning without anything on the wheel ? '
` YOU may think that there is nothing on it , ' answered she , ` but I can assure you that there is a large skein of wool , so fine that nobody can see it , which will be woven into a coat for you . '
` Dear me ! '
he replied , ` what a clever wife I have got !
If you had not told me I should never have known that there was any wool on the wheel at all .
But now I really do seem to see something . '
The woman smiled and was silent , and after spinning busily for an hour more , she got up from her stoop , and began to weave as fast as she could .
At last she got up , and said to her husband : ' I am too tired to finish it to-night , so I shall go to bed , and to-morrow I shall only have the cutting and stitching to do . '
So the next morning she got up early , and after she had cleaned her house , and fed her chickens , and put everything in its place again , she bent over the kitchen table , and the sound of her big scissors might be heard snip !
snap !
as far as the garden .
Her husband could not see anything to snip at ; but then he was so stupid that was not surprising !
After the cutting came the sewing .
The woman patted and pinned and fixed and joined , and then , turning to the man , she said : ` Now it is ready for you to try on . '
And she made him take off his coat , and stand up in front of her , and once more she patted an pinned and fixed and joined , and was very careful in smoothing out every wrinkle .
` It does not feel very warm , ' observed the man at last , when he had borne all this patiently for a long time .
` That is because it is so fine , ' answered she ; ` you do not want it to be as thick as the rough clothes you wear every day . '
He DID , but was ashamed to say so , and only answered : ` Well , I am sure it must be beautiful since you say so , and I shall be smarter than anyone in the whole village .
`` What a splendid coat ! ''
they will exclaim when they see me .
But it is not everybody who has a wife as clever as mine . '
Meanwhile the other wife was not idle .
As soon as her husband entered she looked at him with such a look of terror that the poor man was quite frightened .
` Why do you stare at me so ?
Is there anything the matter ? '
asked he .
` Oh !
go to bed at once , ' she cried ; ` you must be very ill indeed to look like that ! '
The man was rather surprised at first , as he felt particularly well that evening ; but the moment his wife spoke he became quite certain that he had something dreadful the matter with him , and grew quite pale . '
I dare say it would be the best place for me , ' he answered , trembling ; and he suffered his wife to take him upstairs , and to help him off with his clothes .
` If you sleep well during the might there MAY be a chance for you , ' said she , shaking her head , as she tucked him up warmly ; ` but if not -- ' And of course the poor man never closed an eye till the sun rose .
` How do you feel this morning ? '
asked the woman , coming in on tip-toe when her house-work was finished .
` Oh , bad ; very bad indeed , ' answered he ; ' I have not slept for a moment .
Can you think of nothing to make me better ? ' '
I will try everything that is possible , ' said the wife , who did not in the least wish her husband to die , but was determined to show that he was more foolish that the other man . '
I will get some dried herbs and make you a drink , but I am very much afraid that it is too late .
Why did you not tell me before ? ' '
I thought perhaps the pain would go off in a day or two ; and , besides , I did not want to make you unhappy , ' answered the man , who was by this time quite sure he had been suffering tortures , and had borne them like a hero .
` Of course , if I had had any idea how ill I really was , I should have spoken at once . '
` Well , well , I will see what can be done , ' said the wife , ` but talking is not good for you .
Lie still , and keep yourself warm . '
All that day the man lay in bed , and whenever his wife entered the room and asked him , with a shake of the head , how he felt , he always replied that he was getting worse .
At last , in the evening , she burst into tears , and when he inquired what was the matter , she sobbed out : ` Oh , my poor , poor husband , are you really dead ?
I must go to-morrow and order your coffin . '
Now , when the man heard this , a cold shiver ran through his body , and all at once he knew that he was as well as he had ever been in his life .
` Oh , no , no ! '
he cried , ' I feel quite recovered !
Indeed , I think I shall go out to work . '
` You will do no such thing , ' replied his wife .
` Just keep quite quiet , for before the sun rises you will be a dead man . '
The man was very frightened at her words , and lay absolutely still while the undertaker came and measured him for his coffin ; and his wife gave orders to the gravedigger about his grave .
That evening the coffin was sent home , and in the morning at nine o'clock the woman put him on a long flannel garment , and called to the undertaker 's men to fasten down the lid and carry him to the grave , where all their friends were waiting them .
Just as the body was being placed in the ground the other woman 's husband came running up , dressed , as far as anyone could see , in no clothes at all .
Everybody burst into shouts of laughter at the sight of him , and the men laid down the coffin and laughed too , till their sides nearly split .
The dead man was so astonished at this behaviour , that he peeped out of a little window in the side of the coffin , and cried out : ' I should laugh as loudly as any of you , if I were not a dead man . '
When they heard the voice coming from the coffin the other people suddenly stopped laughing , and stood as if they had been turned into stone .
Then they rushed with one accord to the coffin , and lifted the lid so that the man could step out amongst them .
` Were you really not dead after all ? '
asked they .
` And if not , why did you let yourself be buried ? '
At this the wives both confessed that they had each wished to prove that her husband was stupider than the other .
But the villagers declared that they could not decide which was the most foolish -- the man who allowed himself to be persuaded that he was wearing fine clothes when he was dressed in nothing , or the man who let himself be buried when he was alive and well .
So the women quarrelled just as much as they did before , and no one ever knew whose husband was the most foolish .
-LSB- Adapted from the Neuislandische Volksmarchen . -RSB-
Asmund and Signy Long , long ago , in the days when fairies , witches , giants and ogres still visited the earth , there lived a king who reigned over a great and beautiful country .
He was married to a wife whom he dearly loved , and had two most promising children -- a son called Asmund , and a daughter who was named Signy .
The king and queen were very anxious to bring their children up well , and the young prince and princess were taught everything likely to make them clever and accomplished .
They lived at home in their father 's palace , and he spared no pains to make their lives happy .
Prince Asmund dearly loved all outdoor sports and an open-air life , and from his earliest childhood he had longed to live entirely in the forest close by .
After many arguments and entreaties he succeeded in persuading the king to give him two great oak trees for his very own .
` Now , ' said he to his sister , ' I will have the trees hollowed out , and then I will make rooms in them and furnish them so that I shall be able to live out in the forest . '
` Oh , Asmund ! '
exclaimed Signy , ` what a delightful idea !
Do let me come too , and live in one of your trees .
I will bring all my pretty things and ornaments , and the trees are so near home we shall be quite safe in them . '
Asmund , who was extremely fond of his sister , readily consented , and they had a very happy time together , carrying over all their pet treasures , and Signy 's jewels and other ornaments , and arranging them in the pretty little rooms inside the trees .
Unfortunately sadder days were to come .
A war with another country broke out , and the king had to lead his army against their enemy .
During his absence the queen fell ill , and after lingering for some time she died , to the great grief of her children .
They made up their minds to live altogether for a time in their trees , and for this purpose they had provisions enough stored up inside to last them a year .
Now , I must tell you , in another country a long way off , there reigned a king who had an only son named Ring .
Prince Ring had heard so much about the beauty and goodness of Princess Signy that he determined to marry her if possible .
So he begged his father to let him have a ship for the voyage , set sail with a favourable wind , and after a time landed in the country where Signy lived .
The prince lost no time in setting out for the royal palace , and on his way there he met such a wonderfully lovely woman that he felt he had never seen such beauty in all his life .
He stopped her and at once asked who she was . '
I am Signy , the king 's daughter , ' was the reply .
Then the prince inquired why she was wandering about all by herself , and she told him that since her mother 's death she was so sad that whilst her father was away she preferred being alone .
Ring was quite deceived by her , and never guessed that she was not Princess Signy at all , but a strong , gigantic , wicked witch bent on deceiving him under a beautiful shape .
He confided to her that he had travelled all the way from his own country for her sake , having fallen in love with the accounts he had heard of her beauty , and he then and there asked her to be his wife .
The witch listened to all he said and , much pleased , ended by accepting his offer ; but she begged him to return to his ship for a little while as she wished to go some way further into the forest , promising to join him later on .
Prince Ring did as she wished and went back to his ship to wait , whilst she walked on into the forest till she reached the two oak trees .
Here she resumed her own gigantic shape , tore up the trees by their roots , threw one of them over her back and clasped the other to her breast , carried them down to the shore and waded out with them to the ship .
She took care not to be noticed as she reached the ship , and directly she got on board she once more changed to her former lovely appearance and told the prince that her luggage was now all on board , and that they need wait for nothing more .
The prince gave orders to set sail at once , and after a fine voyage landed in his own country , where his parents and his only sister received him with the greatest joy and affection .
The false Signy was also very kindly welcomed .
A beautiful house was got ready for her , and Prince Ring had the two oaks planted in the garden just in front of her windows so that she might have the pleasure of seeing them constantly .
He often went to visit the witch , whom he believed to be Princess Signy , and one day he asked : ` Do n't you think we might be married before long ? '
` Yes , ' said she , quite pleased , ' I am quite ready to marry you whenever you like . '
` Then , ' replied Ring , ` let us decide on this day fortnight .
And see , I have brought you some stuff to make your wedding-dress of . '
So saying he gave her a large piece of the most beautiful brocade , all woven over with gold threads , and embroidered with pearls and other jewels .
The prince had hardly left her before the witch resumed her proper shape and tore about the room , raging and storming and flinging the beautiful silk on the floor .
` What was SHE to do with such things ? '
she roared .
` SHE did not know how to sew or make clothes , and she was sure to die of starvation into the bargain if her brother Ironhead did not come soon and bring her some raw meat and bones , for she really could eat nothing else . '
As she was raving and roaring in this frantic manner part of the floor suddenly opened and a huge giant rose up carrying a great chest in his arms .
The witch was enchanted at this sight , and eagerly helped her brother to set down and open the chest , which was full of the ghastly food she had been longing for .
The horrid pair set to and greedily devoured it all , and when the chest was quite empty the giant put it on his shoulder and disappeared as he had come , without leaving any trace of his visit .
But his sister did not keep quiet for long , and tore and pulled at the rich brocade as if she wanted to destroy it , stamping about and shouting angrily .
Now , all this time Prince Asmund and his sister sat in their trees just outside the window and saw all that was going on .
` Dear Signy , ' said Asmund , ` do try to get hold of that piece of brocade and make the clothes yourself , for really we shall have no rest day or night with such a noise . ' '
I will try , ' said Signy ; ` it wo n't be an easy matter , but it 's worth while taking some trouble to have a little peace . '
So she watched for an opportunity and managed to carry off the brocade the first time the witch left her room .
Then she set to work , cutting out and sewing as best she could , and by the end of six days she had turned it into an elegant robe with a long train and a mantle .
When it was finished she climbed to the top of her tree and contrived to throw the clothes on to a table through the open window .
How delighted the witch was when she found the clothes all finished !
The next time Prince Ring came to see her she gave them to him , and he paid her many compliments on her skilful work , after which he took leave of her in the most friendly manner .
But he had scarcely left the house when the witch began to rage as furiously as ever , and never stopped till her brother Ironhead appeared .
When Asmund saw all these wild doings from his tree he felt he could no longer keep silence .
He went to Prince Ring and said : ` Do come with me and see the strange things that are happening in the new princess 's room . '
The prince was not a little surprised , but he consented to hide himself with Asmund behind the panelling of the room , from where they could see all that went on through a little slit .
The witch was raving and roaring as usual , and said to her brother : ` Once I am married to the king 's son I shall be better off than now .
I shall take care to have all that pack of courtiers put to death , and then I shall send for all my relations to come and live here instead .
I fancy the giants will enjoy themselves very much with me and my husband . '
When Prince Ring heard this he fell into such a rage that he ordered the house to be set on fire , and it was burnt to the ground , with the witch and her brother in it .
Asmund then told the prince about the two oak trees and took him to see them .
The prince was quite astonished at them and at all their contents , but still more so at the extreme beauty of Signy .
He fell in love with her at once , and entreated her to marry him , which , after a time , she consented to do .
Asmund , on his side , asked for the hand of Prince Ring 's sister , which was gladly granted him , and the double wedding was celebrated with great rejoicings .
After this Prince Asmund and his bride returned to his country to live with the king his father .
The two couples often met , and lived happily for many , many years .
And that is the end of the story .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Rubezahl Over all the vast under-world the mountain Gnome Rubezahl was lord ; and busy enough the care of his dominions kept him .
There were the endless treasure chambers to be gone through , and the hosts of gnomes to be kept to their tasks .
Some built strong barriers to hold back the fiery vapours to change dull stones to precious metal , or were hard at work filling every cranny of the rocks with diamonds and rubies ; for Rubezahl loved all pretty things .
Sometimes the fancy would take him to leave those gloomy regions , and come out upon the green earth for a while , and bask in the sunshine and hear the birds sing .
And as gnomes live many hundreds of years he saw strange things .
For , the first time he came up , the great hills were covered with thick forests , in which wild animals roamed , and Rubezahl watched the fierce fights between bear and bison , or chased the grey wolves , or amused himself by rolling great rocks down into the desolate valleys , to hear the thunder of their fall echoing among the hills .
But the next time he ventured above ground , what was his surprise to find everything changed !
The dark woods were hewn down , and in their place appeared blossoming orchards surrounding cosy-looking thatched cottages ; for every chimney the blue smoke curled peacefully into the air , sheep and oxen fed in the flowery meadows , while from the shade of the hedges came the music of the shepherd 's pipe .
The strangeness and pleasantness of the sight so delighted the gnome that he never thought of resenting the intrusion of these unexpected guests , who , without saying ` by your leave ' or ` with your leave , ' had made themselves so very much at home upon is hills ; nor did he wish to interfere with their doings , but left them in quiet possession of their homes , as a good householder leaves in peace the swallows who have built their nests under his eaves .
He was indeed greatly minded to make friends with this being called ` man , ' so , taking the form of an old field labourer , he entered the service of a farmer .
Under his care all the crops flourished exceedingly , but the master proved to be wasteful and ungrateful , and Rubezahl soon left him , and went to be shepherd to his next neighbour .
He tended the flock so diligently , and knew so well where to lead the sheep to the sweetest pastures , and where among the hills to look for any who strayed away , that they too prospered under his care , and not one was lost or torn by wolves ; but this new master was a hard man , and begrudged him his well-earned wages .
So he ran away and went to serve the judge .
Here he upheld the law with might and main , and was a terror to thieves and evildoers ; but the judge was a bad man , who took bribes , and despised the law .
Rubezahl would not be the tool of an unjust man , and so he told his master , who thereupon ordered him to be thrown in prison .
Of course that did not trouble the gnome at all , he simply got out through the keyhole , and went away down to his underground palace , very much disappointed by his first experience of mankind .
But , as time went on , he forgot the disagreeable things that had happened to him , and thought he would take another look at the upper world .
So he stole into the valley , keeping himself carefully hidden in copse or hedgerow , and very soon met with an adventure ; for , peeping through a screen of leaves , he saw before him a green lawn where stood a charming maiden , fresh as the spring , and beautiful to look upon .
Around her upon the grass lay her young companions , as if they had thrown themselves down to rest after some merry game .
Beyond them flowed a little brook , into which a waterfall leapt from a high rock , filling the air with its pleasant sound , and making a coolness even in the sultry noontide .
The sight of the maiden so pleased the gnome that , for the first time , he wished himself a mortal ; and , longing for a better view of the gay company , he changed himself into a raven and perched upon an oaktree which overhung the brook .
But he soon found that this was not at all a good plan .
He could only see with a raven 's eyes , and feel as a raven feels ; and a nest of field-mice at the foot of the tree interested him far more than the sport of the maidens .
When he understood this he flew down again in a great hurry into the thicket , and took the form of a handsome young man -- that was the best way -- and he fell in love with the girl then and there .
The fair maiden was the daughter of the king of the country , and she often wandered in the forest with her play fellows gathering the wild flowers and fruits , till the midday heat drove the merry band to the shady lawn by the brook to rest , or to bathe in the cool waters .
On this particular morning the fancy took them to wander off again into the wood .
This was Master Rubezahl 's opportunity .
Stepping out of his hiding-place he stood in the midst of the little lawn , weaving his magic spells , till slowly all about him changed , and when the maidens returned at noon to their favourite resting-place they stood lost in amazement , and almost fancied that they must be dreaming .
The red rocks had become white marble and alabaster ; the stream that murmured and struggled before in its rocky bed , flowed in silence now in its smooth channel , from which a clear fountain leapt , to fall again in showers of diamond drops , now on this side now on that , as the wandering breeze scattered it .
Daisies and forget-me-nots fringed its brink , while tall hedges of roses and jasmine ringed it round , making the sweetest and daintiest bower imaginable .
To the right and left of the waterfall opened out a wonderful grotto , its walls and arches glittering with many-coloured rock-crystals , while in every niche were spread out strange fruits and sweetmeats , the very sight of which made the princess long to taste them .
She hesitated a while , however , scarcely able to believe her eyes , and not knowing if she should enter the enchanted spot or fly from it .
But at length curiosity prevailed , and she and her companions explored to their heart 's content , and tasted and examined everything , running hither and thither in high glee , and calling merrily to each other .
At last , when they were quite weary , the princess cried out suddenly that nothing would content her but to bathe in the marble pool , which certainly did look very inviting ; and they all went gaily to this new amusement .
The princess was ready first , but scarcely had she slipped over the rim of the pool when down -- down -- down she sank , and vanished in its depths before her frightened playmates could seize her by so much as a lock of her floating golden hair !
Loudly did they weep and wail , running about the brink of the pool , which looked so shallow and so clear , but which had swallowed up their princess before their eyes .
They even sprang into the water and tried to dive after her , but in vain ; they only floated like corks in the enchanted pool , and could not keep under water for a second .
They saw at last that there was nothing for it but to carry to the king the sad tidings of his beloved daughter 's disappearance .
And what great weeping and lamentation there was in the palace when the dreadful news was told !
The king tore his robes , dashed his golden crown from his head , and hid his face in his purple mantle for grief and anguish at the loss of the princess .
After the first outburst of wailing , however , he took heart and hurried off to see for himself the scene of this strange adventure , thinking , as people will in sorrow , that there might be some mistake after all .
But when he reached the spot , behold , all was changed again !
The glittering grotto described to him by the maidens had completely vanished , and so had the marble bath , the bower of jasmine ; instead , all was a tangle of flowers , as it had been of old .
The king was so much perplexed that he threatened the princess 's playfellows with all sorts of punishments if they would not confess something about her disappearance ; but as they only repeated the same story he presently put down the whole affair to the work of some sprite or goblin , and tried to console himself for his loss by ordering a grand hunt ; for kings can not bear to be troubled about anything long .
Meanwhile the princess was not at all unhappy in the palace of her elfish lover .
When the water-nymphs , who were hiding in readiness , had caught her and dragged her out of the sight of her terrified maidens , she herself had not had time to be frightened .
They swam with her quickly by strange underground ways to a palace so splendid that her father 's seemed but a poor cottage in comparison with it , and when she recovered from her astonishment she found herself seated upon a couch , wrapped in a wonderful robe of satin fastened with a silken girdle , while beside her knelt a young man who whispered the sweetest speeches imaginable in her ear .
The gnome , for he it was , told her all about himself and his great underground kingdom , and presently led her through the many rooms and halls of the palace , and showed her the rare and wonderful things displayed in them till she was fairly dazzled at the sight of so much splendour .
On three sides of the castle lay a lovely garden with masses of gay , sweet flowers , and velvet lawns all cool and shady , which pleased the eye of the princess .
The fruit trees were hung with golden and rosy apples , and nightingales sang in every bush , as the gnome and the princess wandered in the leafy alleys , sometimes gazing at the moon , sometimes pausing to gather the rarest flowers for her adornment .
And all the time he was thinking to himself that never , during the hundreds of years he had lived , had he seen so charming a maiden .
But the princess felt no such happiness ; in spite of all the magic delights around her she was sad , though she tried to seem content for fear of displeasing the gnome .
However , he soon perceived her melancholy , and in a thousand ways strove to dispel the cloud , but in vain .
At last he said to himself : ` Men are sociable creatures , like bees or ants .
Doubtless this lovely mortal is pining for company .
Who is there I can find for her to talk to ? '
Thereupon he hastened into the nearest filed and dug up a dozen or so of different roots -- carrots , turnips , and radishes -- and laying them carefully in an elegant basket brought them to the princess , who sat pensive in the shade of the rose-bower .
` Loveliest daughter of earth , ' said the gnome , ` banish all sorrow ; no more shall you be lonely in my dwelling .
In this basket is all you need to make this spot delightful to you .
Take this little many-coloured wand , and with a touch give to each root the form you desire to see . '
With this he left her , and the princess , without an instant 's delay , opened the basket , and touching a turnip , cried eagerly : ` Brunhilda , my dear Brunhilda !
come to me quickly ! '
And sure enough there was Brunhilda , joyfully hugging and kissing her beloved princess , and chattering as gaily as in the old days .
This sudden appearance was so delightful that the princess could hardly believe her own eyes , and was quite beside herself with the joy of having her dear playfellow with her once more .
Hand in hand they wandered about the enchanted garden , and gathered the golden apples from the trees , and when they were tired of this amusement the princess led her friend through all the wonderful rooms of the palace , until at last they came to the one in which were kept all the marvellous dresses and ornaments the gnome had given to his hoped-for bride .
There they found so much to amuse them that the hours passed like minutes .
Veils , girdles , and necklaces were tried on and admired , the imitation Brunhilda knew so well how to behave herself , and showed so much taste that nobody would ever have suspected that she was nothing but a turnip after all .
The gnome , who had secretly been keeping an eye upon them , was very pleased with himself for having so well understood the heart of a woman ; and the princess seemed to him even more charming than before .
She did not forget to touch the rest of the roots with her magic wand , and soon had all her maidens about her , and even , as she had two tiny radishes to spare , her favourite cat , and her little dog whose name was Beni .
And now all went cheerfully in the castle .
The princess gave to each of the maidens her task , and never was mistress better served .
For a whole week she enjoyed the delight of her pleasant company undisturbed .
They all sang , they danced , they played from morning to night ; only the princess noticed that day by day the fresh young faces of her maidens grew pale and wan , and the mirror in the great marble hall showed her that she alone still kept her rosy bloom , while Brunhilda and the rest faded visibly .
They assured her that all was well with them ; but , nevertheless , they continued to waste away , and day by day it became harder to them to take part in the games of the princess , till at last , one fine morning , when the princess started from bed and hastened out to join her gay playfellows , she shuddered and started back at the sight of a group of shrivelled crones , with bent backs and trembling limbs , who supported their tottering steps with staves and crutches , and coughed dismally .
A little nearer to the hearth lay the once frolicsome Beni , with all four feet stretched stiffly out , while the sleek cat seemed too weak to raise his head from his velvet cushion .
The horrified princess fled to the door to escape from the sight of this mournful company , and called loudly for the gnome , who appeared at once , humbly anxious to do her bidding .
` Malicious Sprite , ' she cried , ` why do you begrudge me my playmates -- the greatest delight of my lonely hours ?
Is n't this solitary life in such a desert bad enough without your turning the castle into a hospital for the aged ?
Give my maidens back their youth and health this very minute , or I will never love you ! '
` Sweetest and fairest of damsels , ' cried the gnome , ` do not be angry ; everything that is in my power I will do -- but do not ask the impossible .
So long as the sap was fresh in the roots the magic staff could keep them in the forms you desired , but as the sap dried up they withered away .
But never trouble yourself about that , dearest one , a basket of fresh turnips will soon set matters right , and you can speedily call up again every form you wish to see .
The great green patch in the garden will prove you with a more lively company . '
So saying the gnome took himself off .
And the princess with her magic wand touched the wrinkled old women , and left them the withered roots they really were , to be thrown upon the rubbish heap ; and with light feet skipped off across to the meadow to take possession of the freshly filled basket .
But to her surprise she could not find it anywhere .
Up and down the garden she searched , spying into every corner , but not a sign of it was to be found .
By the trellis of grape vines she met the gnome , who was so much embarrassed at the sight of her that she became aware of his confusion while he was still quite a long way off .
` You are trying to tease me , ' she cried , as soon as she saw him .
` Where have you hidden the basket ?
I have been looking for it at least an hour . '
` Dear queen of my heart , ' answered he , ' I pray you to forgive my carelessness .
I promised more than I could perform .
I have sought all over the land for the roots you desire ; but they are gathered in , and lie drying in musty cellars , and the fields are bare and desolate , for below in the valley winter reigns , only here in your presence spring is held fast , and wherever your foot is set the gay flowers bloom .
Have patience for a little , and then without fail you shall have your puppets to play with . '
Almost before the gnome had finished , the disappointed princess turned away , and marched off to her own apartments , without deigning to answer him .
The gnome , however , set off above ground as speedily as possible , and disguising himself as a farmer , bought an ass in the nearest market-town , and brought it back loaded with sacks of turnip , carrot , and radish seed .
With this he sowed a great field , and sent a vast army of his goblins to watch and tend it , and to bring up the fiery rivers from the heart of the earth near enough to warm and encourage the sprouting seeds .
Thus fostered they grew and flourished marvellously , and promised a goodly crop .
The princess wandered about the field day by day , no other plants or fruits in all her wonderful garden pleased her as much as these roots ; but still her eyes were full of discontent .
And , best of all , she loved to while away the hours in a shady fir-wood , seated upon the bank of a little stream , into which she would cast the flowers she had gathered and watch them float away .
The gnome tried hard by every means in his power to please the princess and win her love , but little did he guess the real reason of his lack of success .
He imagined that she was too young and inexperienced to care for him ; but that was a mistake , for the truth was that another image already filled her heart .
The young Prince Ratibor , whose lands joined her father 's , had won the heart of the princess ; and the lovers had been looking forward to the coming of their wedding-day when the bride 's mysterious disappearance took place .
The sad news drove Ratibor distracted , and as the days went on , and nothing could be heard of the princess , he forsook his castle and the society of men , and spent his days in the wild forests , roaming about and crying her name aloud to the trees and rocks .
Meanwhile , the maiden , in her gorgeous prison , sighed in secret over her grief , not wishing to arouse the gnome 's suspicions .
In her own mind she was wondering if by any means she might escape from her captivity , and at last she hit upon a plan .
By this time spring once more reigned in the valley , and the gnome sent the fires back to their places in the deeps of the earth , for the roots which they had kept warm through all the cruel winter hand now come to their full size .
Day by day the princess pulled up some of them , and made experiments with them , conjuring up now this longed-for person , and now that , just for the pleasure of seeing them as they appeared ; but she really had another purpose in view .
One day she changed a tiny turnip into a bee , and sent him off to bring her some news of her lover .
` Fly , dear little bee , towards the east , ' said she , ` to my beloved Ratibor , and softly hum into his ear that I love him only , but that I am a captive in the gnome 's palace under the mountains .
Do not forget a single word of my greeting , and bring me back a message from my beloved . '
So the bee spread his shining wings and flew away to do as he was bidden ; but before he was out of sight a greedy swallow made a snatch at him , and to the great grief of the princess her messenger was eaten up then and there .
After that , by the power of the wonderful wand she summoned a cricket , and taught him this greeting : ` Hop , little cricket , to Ratibor , and chirp in his ear that I love him only , but that I am held captive by the gnome in his palace under the mountains . '
So the cricket hopped off gaily , determined to do his best to deliver his message ; but , alas !
a long-legged stork who was prancing along the same road caught him in her cruel beak , and before he could say a word he had disappeared down her throat .
These two unlucky ventures did not prevent the princess from trying once more .
This time she changed the turnip into a magpie .
` Flutter from tree to tree , chattering bird , ' said she , 'till you come to Ratibor , my love .
Tell him that I am a captive , and bid him come with horses and men , the third day from this , to the hill that rises from the Thorny Valley . '
The magpie listened , hopped awhile from branch to branch , and then darted away , the princess watching him anxiously as far as she could see .
Now Prince Ratibor was still spending his life in wandering about the woods , and not even the beauty of the spring could soothe his grief .
One day , as he sat in the shade of an oak tree , dreaming of his lost princess , and sometimes crying her name aloud , he seemed to hear another voice reply to his , and , starting up , he gazed around him , but he could see no one , and he had just made up his mind that he must be mistaken , when the same voice called again , and , looking up sharply , he saw a magpie which hopped to and fro among the twigs .
Then Ratibor heard with surprise that the bird was indeed calling him by name .
` Poor chatterpie , ' said he ; ` who taught you to say that name , which belongs to an unlucky mortal who wishes the earth would open and swallow up him and his memory for ever ? '
Thereupon he caught up a great stone , and would have hurled it at the magpie , if it had not at that moment uttered the name of the princess .
This was so unexpected that the prince 's arm fell helplessly to his side at the sound , and he stood motionless .
But the magpie in the tree , who , like all the rest of his family , was not happy unless he could be for ever chattering , began to repeat the message the princess had taught him ; and as soon as he understood it , Prince Ratibor 's heart was filed with joy .
All his gloom and misery vanished in a moment , and he anxiously questioned the welcome messenger as to the fate of the princess .
But the magpie knew no more than the lesson he had learnt , so he soon fluttered away ; while the prince hurried back to his castle to gather together a troop of horsemen , full of courage for whatever might befall .
The princess meanwhile was craftily pursuing her plan of escape .
She left off treating the gnome with coldness and indifference ; indeed , there was a look in her eyes which encouraged him to hope that she might some day return his love , and the idea pleased him mightily .
The next day , as soon as the sun rose , she made her appearance decked as a bride , in the wonderful robes and jewels which the fond gnome had prepared for her .
Her golden hair was braided and crowned with myrtle blossoms , and her flowing veil sparkled with gems .
In these magnificent garments she went to meet the gnome upon the great terrace .
` Loveliest of maidens , ' he stammered , bowing low before her , ` let me gaze into your dear eyes , and read in them that you will no longer refuse my love , but will make me the happiest being the sun shines upon . '
So saying he would have drawn aside her veil ; but the princess only held it more closely about her .
` Your constancy has overcome me , ' she said ; ' I can no longer oppose your wishes .
But believe my words , and suffer this veil still to hide my blushes and tears . '
` Why tears , beloved one ? '
cried the gnome anxiously ; ` every tear of yours falls upon my heart like a drop of molten gold .
Greatly as I desire your love , I do not ask a sacrifice . '
` Ah ! '
cried the false princess , ` why do you misunderstand my tears ?
My heart answers to your tenderness , and yet I am fearful .
A wife can not always charm , and though YOU will never alter , the beauty of mortals is as a flower that fades .
How can I be sure that you will always be as loving and charming as you are now ? '
` Ask some proof , sweetheart , ' said he .
` Put my obedience and my patience to some test by which you can judge of my unalterable love . '
` Be it so , ' answered the crafty maiden .
` Then give me just one proof of your goodness .
Go !
count the turnips in yonder meadow .
My wedding feast must not lack guests .
They shall provide me with bride-maidens too .
But beware lest you deceive me , and do not miss a single one .
That shall be the test of your truth towards me . '
Unwilling as the gnome was to lose sight of his beautiful bride for a moment , he obeyed her commands without delay , and hurried off to begin his task .
He skipped along among the turnips as nimble as a grasshopper , and had soon counted them all ; but , to be quite certain that he had made no mistake , he thought he would just run over them again .
This time , to his great annoyance , the number was different ; so he reckoned them for the third time , but now the number was not the same as either of the previous ones !
And this was hardly to be wondered at , as his mind was full of the princess 's pretty looks and words .
As for the maiden , no sooner was her deluded lover fairly out of sight than she began to prepare for flight .
She had a fine fresh turnip hidden close at hand , which she changed into a spirited horse , all saddled and bridled , and , springing upon its back , she galloped away over hill and dale till she reached the Thorny Valley , and flung herself into the arms of her beloved Prince Ratibor .
Meanwhile the toiling gnome went through his task over and over again till his back ached and his head swam , and he could no longer put two and two together ; but as he felt tolerably certain of the exact number of turnips in the field , big and little together , he hurried back eager to prove to his beloved one what a delightful and submissive husband he would be .
He felt very well satisfied with himself as he crossed the mossy lawn to the place where he had left her ; but , alas !
she was no longer there .
He searched every thicket and path , he looked behind every tree , and gazed into every pond , but without success ; then he hastened into the palace and rushed from room to room , peering into every hole and corner and calling her by name ; but only echo answered in the marble halls -- there was neither voice nor footstep .
Then he began to perceive that something was amiss , and , throwing off the mortal form that encumbered him , he flew out of the palace , and soared high into the air , and saw the fugitive princess in the far distance just as the swift horse carried her across the boundary of his dominions .
Furiously did the enraged gnome fling two great clouds together , and hurl a thunderbolt after the flying maiden , splintering the rocky barriers which had stood a thousand years .
But his fury was vain , the thunderclouds melted away into a soft mist , and the gnome , after flying about for a while in despair , bewailing to the four winds his unhappy fate , went sorrowfully back to the palace , and stole once more through every room , with many sighs and lamentations .
He passed through the gardens which for him had lost their charm , and the sight of the princess 's footprints on the golden sand of the pathway renewed his grief .
All was lonely , empty , sorrowful ; and the forsaken gnome resolved that he would have no more dealings with such false creatures as he had found men to be .
Thereupon he stamped three times upon the earth , and the magic palace , with all its treasures , vanished away into the nothingness out of which he had called it ; and the gnome fled once more to the depths of his underground kingdom .
While all this was happening , Prince Ratibor was hurrying away with his prize to a place of safety .
With great pomp and triumph he restored the lovely princess to her father , and was then and there married to her , and took her back with him to his own castle .
But long after she was dead , and her children too , the villagers would tell the tale of her imprisonment underground , as they sat carving wood in the winter nights .
-LSB- Volksmahrchen der Deutschen . -RSB-
Story Of The King Who Would Be Stronger Than Fate Once upon a time , far away in the east country , there lived a king who loved hunting so much that , when once there was a deer in sight , he was careless of his own safety .
Indeed , he often became quite separated from his nobles and attendants , and in fact was particularly fond of lonely adventures .
Another of his favourite amusements was to give out that he was not well , and could not be seen ; and then , with the knowledge only of his faithful Grand Wazeer , to disguise himself as a pedlar , load a donkey with cheap wares , and travel about .
In this way he found out what the common people said about him , and how his judges and governors fulfilled their duties .
One day his queen presented him with a baby daughter as beautiful as the dawn , and the king himself was so happy and delighted that , for a whole week , he forgot to hunt , and spent the time in public and private rejoicing .
Not long afterwards , however , he went out after some deer which were to be found in a far corner of his forests .
In the course of the beat his dogs disturbed a beautiful snow-white stag , and directly he saw it the king determined that he would have it at any cost .
So he put the spurs to his horse , and followed it as hard as he could gallop .
Of course all his attendants followed at the best speed that they could manage ; but the king was so splendidly mounted , and the stag was so swift , that , at the end of an hour , the king found that only his favourite hound and himself were in the chase ; all the rest were far , far behind and out of sight .
Nothing daunted , however , he went on and on , till he perceived that he was entering a valley with great rocky mountains on all sides , and that his horse was getting very tired and trembled at every stride .
Worse than all evening was already drawing on , and the sun would soon set .
In vain had he sent arrow after arrow at the beautiful stag .
Every shot fell short , or went wide of the mark ; and at last , just as darkness was setting in , he lost sight altogether of the beast .
By this time his horse could hardly move from fatigue , his hound staggered panting along beside him , he was far away amongst mountains where he had never been before , and had quite missed his way , and not a human creature or dwelling was in sight .
All this was very discouraging , but the king would not have minded if he had not lost that beautiful stag .
That troubled him a good deal , but he never worried over what he could not help , so he got down from his horse , slipped his arm through the bridle , and led the animal along the rough path in hopes of discovering some shepherd 's hut , or , at least , a cave or shelter under some rock , where he might pass the night .
Presently he heard the sound of rushing water , and made towards it .
He toiled over a steep rocky shoulder of a hill , and there , just below him , was a stream dashing down a precipitous glen , and , almost beneath his feet , twinkling and flickering from the level of the torrent , was a dim light as of a lamp .
Towards this light the king with his horse and hound made his way , sliding and stumbling down a steep , stony path .
At the bottom the king found a narrow grassy ledge by the brink of the stream , across which the light from a rude lantern in the mount of a cave shed a broad beam of uncertain light .
At the edge of the stream sat an old hermit with a long white beard , who neither spoke nor moved as the king approached , but sat throwing into the stream dry leaves which lay scattered about the ground near him .
` Peace be upon you , ' said the king , giving the usual country salutation .
` And upon you peace , ' answered the hermit ; but still he never looked up , nor stopped what he was doing .
For a minute or two the king stood watching him .
He noticed that the hermit threw two leaves in at a time , and watched them attentively .
Sometimes both were carried rapidly down by the stream ; sometimes only one leaf was carried off , and the other , after whirling slowly round and round on the edge of the current , would come circling back on an eddy to the hermit 's feet .
At other times both leaves were held in the backward eddy , and failed to reach the main current of the noisy stream .
` What are you doing ? '
asked the king at last , and the hermit replied that he was reading the fates of men ; every one 's fate , he said , was settled from the beginning , and , whatever it were , there was no escape from it .
The king laughed . '
I care little , ' he said , ` what my fate may be ; but I should be curious to know the fate of my little daughter . ' '
I can not say , ' answered the hermit .
` Do you not know , then ? '
demanded the king . '
I might know , ' returned the hermit , ` but it is not always wisdom to know much . '
But the king was not content with this reply , and began to press the old man to say what he knew , which for a long time he would not do .
At last , however , the king urged him so greatly that he said : ` The king 's daughter will marry the son of a poor slave-girl called Puruna , who belongs to the king of the land of the north .
There is no escaping from Fate . '
The king was wild with anger at hearing these words , but he was also very tired ; so he only laughed , and answered that he hoped there would be a way out of THAT fate anyhow .
Then he asked if the hermit could shelter him and his beasts for the night , and the hermit said ` Yes ' ; so , very soon the king had watered and tethered his horse , and , after a supper of bread and parched peas , lay down in the cave , with the hound at his feet , and tried to go to sleep .
But instead of sleeping he only lay awake and thought of the hermit 's prophecy ; and the more he thought of it the angrier he felt , until he gnashed his teeth and declared that it should never , never come true .
Morning came , and the king got up , pale and sulky , and , after learning from the hermit which path to take , was soon mounted and found his way home without much difficulty .
Directly he reached his palace he wrote a letter to the king of the land of the north , begging him , as a favour , to sell him his slave girl Puruna and her son , and saying that , if he consented , he would send a messenger to receive them at the river which divided the kingdoms .
For five days he awaited the reply , and hardly slept or ate , but was as cross as could be all the time .
On the fifth day his messenger returned with a letter to say that the king of the land of the north would not sell , but he would give , the king the slave girl and her son .
The king was overjoyed .
He sent for his Grand Wazeer and told him that he was going on one of his lonely expeditions , and that the Wazeer must invent some excuse to account for his absence .
Next he disguised himself as an ordinary messenger , mounted a swift camel , and sped away to the place where the slave girl was to be handed over to him .
When he got there he gave the messengers who brought her a letter of thanks and a handsome present for their master and rewards for themselves ; and then without delay he took the poor woman and her tiny baby-boy up on to his camel and rode off to a wild desert .
After riding for a day and a night , almost without stopping , he came to a great cave where he made the woman dismount , and , taking her and the baby into the cave , he drew his sword and with one blow chopped her head off .
But although his anger made him cruel enough for anything so dreadful , the king felt that he could not turn his great sword on the helpless baby , who he was sure must soon die in this solitary place without its mother ; so he left it in the cave where it was , and , mounting his camel , rode home as fast as he could .
Now , in a small village in his kingdom there lived an old widow who had no children or relations of any kind .
She made her living mostly by selling the milk of a flock of goats ; but she was very , very poor , and not very strong , and often used to wonder how she would live if she got too weak or ill to attend to her goats .
Every morning she drove the goats out into the desert to graze on the shrubs and bushes which grew there , and every evening they came home of themselves to be milked and to be shut up safely for the night .
One evening the old woman was astonished to find that her very best nanny-goat returned without a drop of milk .
She thought that some naughty boy or girl was playing a trick upon her and had caught the goat on its way home and stolen all the milk .
But when evening after evening the goat remained almost dry she determined to find out who the thief was .
So the next day she followed the goats at a distance and watched them while they grazed .
At length , in the afternoon , the old woman noticed this particular nanny-goat stealing off by herself away from the herd and she at once went after her .
On and on the goat walked for some way , and then disappeared into a cave in the rocks .
The old woman followed the goat into the cave and then , what should she see but the animal giving her milk to a little boy-baby , whilst on the ground near by lay the sad remains of the baby 's dead mother !
Wondering and frightened , the old woman thought at last that this little baby might be a son to her in her old age , and that he would grow up and in time to come be her comfort and support .
So she carried home the baby to her hut , and next day she took a spade to the cave and dug a grave where she buried the poor mother .
Years passed by , and the baby grew up into a find handsome lad , as daring as he was beautiful , and as industrious as he was brave .
One day , when the boy , whom the old woman had named Nur Mahomed , was about seventeen years old , he was coming from his day 's work in the fields , when he saw a strange donkey eating the cabbages in the garden which surround their little cottage .
Seizing a big stick , he began to beat the intruder and to drive him out of his garden .
A neighbour passing by called out to him -- ` Hi !
I say !
why are you beating the pedlar 's donkey like that ? '
` The pedlar should keep him from eating my cabbages , ' said Nur Mahomed ; ` if he comes this evening here again I 'll cut off his tail for him ! '
Whereupon he went off indoors , whistling cheerfully .
It happened that this neighbour was one of those people who make mischief by talking too much ; so , meeting the pedlar in the ` serai , ' or inn , that evening , he told him what had occurred , and added : ` Yes ; and the young spitfire said that if beating the donkey would not do , he would beat you also , and cut your nose off for a thief ! '
A few days later , the pedlar having moved on , two men appeared in the village inquiring who it was who had threatened to ill-treat and to murder an innocent pedlar .
They declared that the pedlar , in fear of his life , had complained to the king ; and that they had been sent to bring the lawless person who had said these things before the king himself .
Of course they soon found out about the donkey eating Nur Mahomed 's cabbages , and about the young man 's hot words ; but although the lad assured them that he had never said anything about murdering anyone , they replied they were ordered to arrest him , and bring him to take his trial before the king .
So , in spite of his protests , and the wails of his mother , he was carried off , and in due time brought before the king .
Of course Nur Mahomed never guessed that the supposed pedlar happened to have been the king himself , although nobody knew it .
But as he was very angry at what he had been told , he declared that he was going to make an example of this young man , and intended to teach him that even poor travelling pedlars could get justice in HIS country , and be protected from such lawlessness .
However , just as he was going to pronounce some very heavy sentence , there was a stir in the court , and up came Nur Mahomed 's old mother , weeping and lamenting , and begging to be heard .
The king ordered her to speak , and she began to plead for the boy , declaring how good he was , and how he was the support of her old age , and if he were put in prison she would die .
The king asked her who she was .
She replied that she was his mother .
` His mother ? '
said the king ; ` you are too old , surely , to have so young a son ! '
Then the old woman , in her fright and distress , confessed the whole story of how she found the baby , and how she rescued and brought him up , and ended by beseeching the king for mercy .
It is easy to guess how , as the story came out , the king looked blacker and blacker , and more and more grim , until at last he was half fainting with rage and astonishment .
This , then , was the baby he had left to die , after cruelly murdering his mother !
Surely fate might have spared him this !
He wished he had sufficient excuse to put the boy to death , for the old hermit 's prophecy came back to him as strongly as ever ; and yet the young man had done nothing bad enough to deserve such a punishment .
Everyone would call him a tyrant if he were to give such an order -- in fact , he dared not try it !
At length he collected himself enough to say : -- ` If this young man will enlist in my army I will let him off .
We have need of such as him , and a little discipline will do him good . '
Still the old woman pleaded that she could not live without her son , and was nearly as terrified at the idea of his becoming a soldier as she was at the thought of his being put in prison .
But at length the king -- determined to get the youth into his clutches -- pacified her by promising her a pension large enough to keep her in comfort ; and Nur Mahomed , to his own great delight , was duly enrolled in the king 's army .
As a soldier Nur Mahomed seemed to be in luck .
He was rather surprised , but much pleased , to find that he was always one of those chosen when any difficult or dangerous enterprise was afoot ; and , although he had the narrowest escapes on some occasions , still , the very desperateness of the situations in which he found himself gave him special chances of displaying his courage .
And as he was also modest and generous , he became a favourite with his officers and his comrades .
Thus it was not very surprising that , before very long , he became enrolled amongst the picked men of the king 's bodyguard .
The fact is , that the king had hoped to have got him killed in some fight or another ; but , seeing that , on the contrary , he throve on hard knocks , he was now determined to try more direct and desperate methods .
One day , soon after Nur Mahomed had entered the bodyguard , he was selected to be one of the soldiers told off to escort the king through the city .
The procession was marching on quite smoothly , when a man , armed with a dagger , rushed out of an alley straight towards the king .
Nur Mahomed , who was the nearest of the guards , threw himself in the way , and received the stab that had been apparently intended for the king .
Luckily the blow was a hurried one , and the dagger glanced on is breastbone , so that , although he received a severe wound , his youth and strength quickly got the better of it .
The king was , of course , obliged to take some notice of this brave deed , and as a reward made him one of his own attendants .
After this the strange adventures the young man passed through were endless .
Officers of the bodyguard were often sent on all sorts of secret and difficult errands , and such errands had a curious way of becoming necessary when Nur Mahomed was on duty .
Once , while he was taking a journey , a foot-bridge gave way under him ; once he was attacked by armed robbers ; a rock rolled down upon him in a mountain pass ; a heavy stone coping fell from a roof at his feet in a narrow city alley .
Altogether , Nur Mahomed began to think that , somewhere or other , he had made an enemy ; but he was light-hearted , and the thought did not much trouble him .
He escaped somehow every time , and felt amused rather than anxious about the next adventure .
It was the custom of that city that the officer for the day of the palace guards should receive all his food direct from the king 's kitchen .
One day , when Nur Mahomed 's turn came to be on duty , he was just sitting down to a delicious stew that had been sent in from the palace , when one of those gaunt , hungry dogs , which , in eastern countries , run about the streets , poked his nose in at the open guard-room door , and looked at Nur Mahomed with mouth watering and nostrils working .
The kind-hearted young man picked out a lump of meat , went to the door , and threw it outside to him .
The dog pounced upon it , and gulped it down greedily , and was just turning to go , when it staggered , fell , rolled over , and died .
Nur Mahomed , who had been lazily watching him , stood still for a moment , then he came back whistling softly .
He gathered up the rest of his dinner and carefully wrapped it up to carry away and bury somewhere ; and then he sent back the empty plates .
How furious the king was when , at the next morning 's durbar , Nur Mahomed appeared before him fresh , alert and smiling as usual .
He was determined , however , to try once more , and bidding the young man come into his presence that evening , gave orders that he was to carry a secret despatch to the governor of a distant province .
` Make your preparations at once , ' added he , ` and be ready to start in the morning .
I myself will deliver you the papers at the last moment . '
Now this province was four or five days ' journey from the palace , and the governor of it was the most faithful servant the king had .
He could be silent as the grave , and prided himself on his obedience .
Whilst he was an old and tried servant of the king 's , his wife had been almost a mother to the young princess ever since the queen had died some years before .
It happened that , a little before this time , the princess had been sent away for her health to another remote province ; and whilst she was there her old friend , the governor 's wife , had begged her to come and stay with them as soon as she could .
The princess accepted gladly , and was actually staying in the governor 's house at the very time when the king made up his mind to send Nur Mahomed there with the mysterious despatch .
According to orders Nur Mahomed presented himself early the next morning at the king 's private apartments .
His best horse was saddled , food placed in is saddle-bag , and with some money tied up in his waist-band , he was ready to start .
The king handed over to him a sealed packet , desiring him to give it himself only into the hands of the governor , and to no one else .
Nur Mahomed hid it carefully in his turban , swung himself into the saddle , and five minutes later rode out of the city gates , and set out on his long journey .
The weather was very hot ; but Nur Mahomed thought that the sooner his precious letter was delivered the better ; so that , by dint of riding most of each night and resting only in the hottest part of the day , he found himself , by noon on the third day , approaching the town which was his final destination .
Not a soul was to be seen anywhere ; and Nur Mahomed , stiff , dry , thirsty , and tired , looked longingly over the wall into the gardens , and marked the fountains , the green grass , the shady apricot orchards , and giant mulberry trees , and wished he were there .
At length he reached the castle gates , and was at once admitted , as he was in the uniform of the king 's bodyguard .
The governor was resting , the soldier said , and could not see him until the evening .
So Nur Mahomed handed over his horse to an attendant , and wandered down into the lovely gardens he had seen from the road , and sat down in the shade to rest himself .
He flung himself on his back and watched the birds twittering and chattering in the trees above him .
Through the branches he could see great patches of sky where the kites wheeled and circled incessantly , with shrill whistling cried .
Bees buzzed over the flowers with a soothing sound , and in a few minutes Nur Mahomed was fast asleep .
Every day , through the heat of the afternoon , the governor , and his wife also , used to lie down for two or three hours in their own rooms , and so , for the matter of that , did most people in the palace .
But the princess , like many other girls , was restless , and preferred to wander about the garden , rather than rest on a pile of soft cushions .
What a torment her stout old attendants and servants sometime thought her when she insisted on staying awake , and making them chatter or do something , when they could hardly keep their eyes open !
Sometimes , however , the princess would pretend to go to sleep , and then , after all her women had gladly followed her example , she would get up and go out by herself , her veil hanging loosely about her .
If she was discovered her old hostess scolded her severely ; but the princess only laughed , and did the same thing next time .
This very afternoon the princess had left all her women asleep , and , after trying in vain to amuse herself indoors , she had slipped out into the great garden , and rambled about in all her favourite nooks and corners , feeling quite safe as there was not a creature to be seen .
Suddenly , on turning a corner , she stopped in surprise , for before her lay a man fast asleep !
In her hurry she had almost tripped over him .
But there he was , a young man , tanned and dusty with travel , in the uniform of an officer of the king 's guard .
One of the few faults of this lovely princess was a devouring curiosity , and she lived such an idle life that she had plenty of time to be curious .
Out of one of the folds of this young man 's turban there peeped the corner of a letter !
She wondered what the letter was -- whom it was for !
She drew her veil a little closer , and stole across on tip-toe and caught hold of the corner of the letter .
Then she pulled it a little , and just a little more !
A great big seal came into view , which she saw to be her father 's , and at the sight of it she paused for a minute half ashamed of what she was doing .
But the pleasure of taking a letter which was not meant for her was more than she could resist , and in another moment it was in her hand .
All at once she remembered that it would be death to this poor officer if he lost the letter , and that at all hazards she must put it back again .
But this was not so easy ; and , moreover , the letter in her hand burnt her with longing to read it , and see what was inside .
She examined the seal .
It was sticky with being exposed to the hot sun , and with a very little effort it parted from the paper .
The letter was open and she read it !
And this was what was written : ` Behead the messenger who brings this letter secretly and at once .
Ask no questions . '
The girl grew pale .
What a shame !
she thought .
SHE would not let a handsome young fellow like that be beheaded ; but how to prevent it was not quite clear at the moment .
Some plan must be invented , and she wished to lock herself in where no one could interrupt her , as might easily happen in the garden .
So she crept softly to her room , and took a piece of paper and wrote upon it : ` Marry the messenger who brings this letter to the princess openly at once .
Ask no questions . '
And even contrived to work the seals off the original letter and to fix them to this , so that no one could tell , unless they examined it closely , that it had ever been opened .
Then she slipped back , shaking with fear and excitement , to where the young officer still lay asleep , thrust the letter into the fold so his turban , and hurried back to her room .
It was done !
Late in the afternoon Nur Mahomed woke , and , making sure that the precious despatch was still safe , went off to get ready for his audience with the governor .
As soon as he was ushered into his presence he took the letter from his turban and placed it in the governor 's hands according to orders .
When he had read it the governor was certainly a little astonished ; but he was told in the letter to ` ask no questions , ' and he knew how to obey orders .
He sent for his wife and told her to get the princess ready to be married at once .
` Nonsense ! '
said his wife , ` what in the world do you mean ? '
` These are the king 's commands , ' he answered ; ` go and do as I bid you .
The letter says `` at once , '' and `` ask no questions . ''
The marriage , therefore , must take place this evening . '
In vain did his wife urge every objection ; the more she argued , the more determined was her husband . '
I know how to obey orders , ' he said , ` and these are as plain as the nose on my face ! '
So the princess was summoned , and , somewhat to their surprise , she seemed to take the news very calmly ; next Nur Mahomed was informed , and he was greatly startled , but of course he could but be delighted at the great and unexpected honour which he thought the king had done him .
Then all the castle was turned upside down ; and when the news spread in the town , THAT was turned upside down too .
Everybody ran everywhere , and tried to do everything at once ; and , in the middle of it all , the old governor went about with his hair standing on end , muttering something about ` obeying orders . '
And so the marriage was celebrated , and there was a great feast in the castle , and another in the soldiers ' barracks , and illuminations all over the town and in the beautiful gardens .
And all the people declared that such a wonderful sight had never been seen , and talked about it to the ends of their lives .
The next day the governor despatched the princess and her bridegroom to the king , with a troop of horsemen , splendidly dressed , and he sent a mounted messenger on before them , with a letter giving the account of the marriage to the king .
When the king got the governor 's letter , he grew so red in the face that everyone thought he was going to have apoplexy .
They were all very anxious to know what had happened , but he rushed off and locked himself into a room , where he ramped and raved until he was tired .
Then , after awhile , he began to think he had better make the best of it , especially as the old governor had been clever enough to send him back his letter , and the king was pretty sure that this was in the princess 's handwriting .
He was fond of his daughter , and though she had behaved badly , he did not wish to cut HER head off , and he did not want people to know the truth because it would make him look foolish .
In fact , the more he considered the matter , the more he felt that he would be wise to put a good face on it , and to let people suppose that he had really brought about the marriage of his own free will .
So , when the young couple arrived , the king received them with all state , and gave his son-in-law a province to govern .
Nur Mahomed soon proved himself as able and honourable a governor as he was a brave soldier ; and , when the old king died , he became king in his place , and reigned long and happily .
Nur Mahomed 's old mother lived for a long time in her ` son 's ' palace , and died in peace .
The princess , his wife , although she had got her husband by a trick , found that she could not trick HIM , and so she never tried , but busied herself in teaching her children and scolding her maids .
As for the old hermit , no trace of him was ever discovered ; but the cave is there , and the leaves lie thick in front of it unto this day .
-LSB- Told the writer by an Indian . -RSB-
Story of Wali Dad the Simple-Hearted Once upon a time there lived a poor old man whose name was Wali Dad Gunjay , or Wali Dad the Bald .
He had no relations , but lived all by himself in a little mud hut some distance from any town , and made his living by cutting grass in the jungle , and selling it as fodder for horses .
He only earned by this five halfpence a day ; but he was a simple old man , and needed so little out of it , that he saved up one halfpenny daily , and spent the rest upon such food and clothing as he required .
In this way he lived for many years until , one night , he thought that he would count the money he had hidden away in the great earthen pot under the floor of his hut .
So he set to work , and with much trouble he pulled the bag out on to the floor , and sat gazing in astonishment at the heap of coins which tumbled out of it .
What should he do with them all ?
he wondered .
But he never thought of spending the money on himself , because he was content to pass the rest of his days as he had been doing for ever so long , and he really had no desire for any greater comfort or luxury .
At last he threw all the money into an old sack , which he pushed under his bead , and then , rolled in his ragged old blanket , he went off to sleep .
Early next morning he staggered off with his sack of money to the shop of a jeweller , whom he knew in the town , and bargained with him for a beautiful little gold bracelet .
With this carefully wrapped up in his cotton waistband he went to the house of a rich friend , who was a travelling merchant , and used to wander about with his camels and merchandise through many countries .
Wali Dad was lucky enough to find him at home , so he sat down , and after a little talk he asked the merchant who was the most virtuous and beautiful lady he had ever met with .
The merchant replied that the princess of Khaistan was renowned everywhere as well for the beauty of her person as for the kindness and generosity of her disposition .
` Then , ' said Wali Dad , ` next time you go that way , give her this little bracelet , with the respectful compliments of one who admires virtue far more than he desires wealth . '
With that he pulled the bracelet from his waistband , and handed it to his friend .
The merchant was naturally much astonished , but said nothing , and made no objection to carrying out his friend 's plan .
Time passed by , and at length the merchant arrived in the course of his travels at the capital of Khaistan .
As soon as he had opportunity he presented himself at the palace , and sent in the bracelet , neatly packed in a little perfumed box provided by himself , giving at the same time the message entrusted to him by Wali Dad .
The princess could not think who could have bestowed this present on her , but she bade her servant to tell the merchant that if he would return , after he had finished his business in the city , she would give him her reply .
In a few days , therefore , the merchant came back , and received from the princess a return present in the shape of a camel-load or rich silks , besides a present of money for himself .
With these he set out on his journey .
Some months later he got home again from his journeyings , and proceeded to take Wali Dad the princess 's present .
Great was the perplexity of the good man to find a camel-load of silks tumbled at his door !
What was he to do with these costly things ?
But , presently , after much thought , he begged the merchant to consider whether he did not know of some young prince to whom such treasures might be useful .
` Of course , ' cried the merchant , greatly amused ; ` from Delhi to Baghdad , and from Constantinople to Lucknow , I know them all ; and there lives none worthier than the gallant and wealthy young prince of Nekabad . '
` Very well , then , take the silks to him , with the blessing of an old man , ' said Wali Dad , much relieved to be rid of them .
So , the next time that the merchant journeyed that way he carried the silks with him , and in due course arrived at Nekabad , and sought an audience of the prince .
When he was shown into his presence he produced the beautiful gift of silks that Wali Dad had sent , and begged the young man to accept them as a humble tribute to his worth and greatness .
The prince was much touched by the generosity of the giver , and ordered , as a return present , twelve of the finest breed of horses for which his country was famous to be delivered over to the merchant , to whom also , before he took his leave , he gave a munificent reward for his services .
As before , the merchant at last arrived at home ; and next day , he set out for Wali Dad 's house with the twelve horses .
When the old man saw them coming in the distance he said to himself : ` Here 's luck !
a troop of horses coming !
They are sure to want quantities of grass , and I shall sell all I have without having to drag it to market . '
Thereupon he rushed off and cut grass as fast he could .
When he got back , with as much grass as he could possibly carry , he was greatly discomfited to find that the horses were all for himself .
At first he could not think what to do with them , but , after a little , a brilliant idea struck him !
He gave two to the merchant , and begged him to take the rest to the princess of Khaistan , who was clearly the fittest person to possess such beautiful animals .
The merchant departed , laughing .
But , true to his old friend 's request , he took the horses with him on his next journey , and eventually presented them safely to the princess .
This time the princess sent for the merchant , and questioned him about the giver .
Now , the merchant was usually a most honest man , but he did not quite like to describe Wali Dad in his true light as an old man whose income was five halfpence a day , and who had hardly clothes to cover him .
So he told her that his friend had heard stories of her beauty and goodness , and had longed to lay the best he had at her feet .
The princess then took her father into her confidence , and begged him to advise her what courtesy she might return to one who persisted in making her such presents .
` Well , ' said the king , ` you can not refuse them ; so the best thing you can do is to send this unknown friend at once a present so magnificent that he is not likely to be able to send you anything better , and so will be ashamed to send anything at all ! '
Then he ordered that , in place of each of the ten horses , two mules laden with silver should be returned by her .
Thus , in a few hours , the merchant found himself in charge of a splendid caravan ; and he had to hire a number of armed men to defend it on the road against the robbers , and he was glad indeed to find himself back again in Wali Dad 's hut .
` Well , now , ' cried Wali Dad , as he viewed all the wealth laid at his door , ' I can well repay that kind prince for his magnificent present of horses ; but to be sure you have been put to great expenses !
Still , if you will accept six mules and their loads , and will take the rest straight to Nekabad , I shall thank you heartily . '
The merchant felt handsomely repaid for his trouble , and wondered greatly how the matter would turn out .
So he made no difficulty about it ; and as soon as he could get things ready , he set out for Nekabad with this new and princely gift .
This time the prince , too , was embarrassed , and questioned the merchant closely .
The merchant felt that his credit was at stake , and whilst inwardly determining that he would not carry the joke any further , could not help describing Wali Dad in such glowing terms that the old man would never have known himself had he heard them .
The prince , like the king of Khaistan , determined that he would send in return a gift that would be truly royal , and which would perhaps prevent the unknown giver sending him anything more .
So he made up a caravan on twenty splendid horses caparisoned in gold embroidered cloths , with fine morocco saddles and silver bridles and stirrups , also twenty camels of the best breed , which had the speed of race-horses , and could swing along at a trot all day without getting tired ; and , lastly , twenty elephants , with magnificent silver howdahs and coverings of silk embroidered with pearls .
To take care of these animals the merchant hired a little army of men ; and the troop made a great show as they travelled along .
When Wali Dad from a distance saw the cloud of dust which the caravan made , and the glitter of its appointments , he said to himself : ` By Allah !
here 's a grand crowd coming !
Elephants , too !
Grass will be selling well to-day ! '
And with that he hurried off to the jungle and cut grass as fast as he could .
As soon as he got back he found the caravan had stopped at his door , and the merchant was waiting , a little anxiously , to tell him the news and to congratulate him upon his riches .
` Riches ! '
cried Wali Dad , ` what has an old man like me with one foot in the grave to do with riches ?
That beautiful young princess , now !
She 'd be the one to enjoy all these fine things !
Do you take for yourself two horses , two camels , and two elephants , with all their trappings , and present the rest to her . '
The merchant at first objected to these remarks , and pointed out to Wali Dad that he was beginning to feel these embassies a little awkward .
Of course he was himself richly repaid , so far as expenses went ; but still he did not like going so often , and he was getting nervous .
At length , however he consented to go once more , but he promised himself never to embark on another such enterprise .
So , after a few days ' rest , the caravan started off once more for Khaistan .
The moment the king of Khaistan saw the gorgeous train of men and beasts entering his palace courtyard , he was so amazed that he hurried down in person to inquire about it , and became dumb when he heard that these also were a present from the princely Wali Dad , and were for the princess , his daughter .
He went hastily off to her apartments , and said to her : ' I tell you what it is , my dear , this man wants to marry you ; that is the meaning of all these presents !
There is nothing for it but that we go and pay him a visit in person .
He must be a man of immense wealth , and as he is so devoted to you , perhaps you might do worse than marry him ! '
The princess agreed with all that her father said , and orders were issued for vast numbers of elephants and camels , and gorgeous tents and flags , and litters for the ladies , and horses for the men , to be prepared without delay , as the king and princess were going to pay a visit to the great and munificent prince Wali Dad .
The merchant , the king declared , was to guide the party .
The feelings of the poor merchant in this sore dilemma can hardly be imagined .
Willingly would he have run away ; but he was treated with so much hospitality as Wali Dad 's representative , that he hardly got an instant 's real peace , and never any opportunity of slipping away .
In fact , after a few days , despair possessed him to such a degree that he made up his mind that all that happened was fate , and that escape was impossible ; but he hoped devoutly some turn of fortune would reveal to him a way out of the difficulties which he had , with the best intentions , drawn upon himself .
On the seventh day they all started , amidst thunderous salutes from the ramparts of the city , and much dust , and cheering , and blaring of trumpets .
Day after day they moved on , and every day the poor merchant felt more ill and miserable .
He wondered what kind of death the king would invent for him , and went through almost as much torture , as he lay awake nearly the whole of every night thinking over the situation , as he would have suffered if the king 's executioners were already setting to work upon his neck .
At last they were only one day 's march from Wali Dad 's little mud home .
Here a great encampment was made , and the merchant was sent on to tell Wali Dad that the King and Princess of Khaistan had arrived and were seeking an interview .
When the merchant arrived he found the poor old man eating his evening meal of onions and dry bread , and when he told him of all that had happened he had not the heart to proceed to load him with the reproaches which rose to his tongue .
For Wali Dad was overwhelmed with grief and shame for himself , for his friend , and for the name and honour of the princess ; and he wept and plucked at his beard , and groaned most piteously .
With tears he begged the merchant to detain them for one day by any kind of excuse he could think of , and to come in the morning to discuss what they should do .
As soon as the merchant was gone Wali Dad made up his mind that there was only one honourable way out of the shame and distress that he had created by his foolishness , and that was -- to kill himself .
So , without stopping to ask any one 's advice , he went off in the middle of the night to a place where the river wound along at the base of steep rocky cliffs of great height , and determined to throw himself down and put an end to his life .
When he got to the place he drew back a few paces , took a little run , and at the very edge of that dreadful black gulf he stopped short !
He COULD not do it !
From below , unseen in the blackness of the deep night shadows , the water roared and boiled round the jagged rocks -- he could picture the place as he knew it , only ten times more pitiless and forbidding in the visionless darkness ; the wind soughed through the gorge with fearsome sighs , and rustlings and whisperings , and the bushes and grasses that grew in the ledges of the cliffs seemed to him like living creatures that danced and beckoned , shadowy and indistinct .
An owl laughed ` Hoo !
hoo ! '
almost in his face , as he peered over the edge of the gulf , and the old man threw himself back in a perspiration of horror .
He was afraid !
He drew back shuddering , and covering his face in his hands he wept aloud .
Presently he was aware of a gentle radiance that shed itself before him .
Surely morning was not already coming to hasten and reveal his disgrace !
He took his hands from before his face , and saw before him two lovely beings whom his instinct told him were not mortal , but were Peris from Paradise .
` Why do you weep , old man ? '
said one , in a voice as clear and musical as that of the bulbul . '
I weep for shame , ' replied he .
` What do you here ? '
questioned the other . '
I came here to die , ' said Wali Dad .
And as they questioned him , he confessed all his story .
Then the first stepped forward and laid a hand upon his shoulder , and Wali Dad began to feel that something strange -- what , he did not know -- was happening to him .
His old cotton rags of clothes were changed to beautiful linen and embroidered cloth ; on his hard , bare feet were warm , soft shoes , and on his head a great jewelled turban .
Round his neck there lay a heavy golden chain , and the little old bent sickle , which he cut grass with , and which hung in his waistband , had turned into a gorgeous scimetar , whose ivory hilt gleamed in the pale light like snow in moonlight .
As he stood wondering , like a man in a dream , the other peri waved her hand and bade him turn and see ; and , lo !
before him a noble gateway stood open .
And up an avenue of giant place trees the peris led him , dumb with amazement .
At the end of the avenue , on the very spot where his hut had stood , a gorgeous palace appeared , ablaze with myriads of lights .
Its great porticoes and verandahs were occupied by hurrying servants , and guards paced to and fro and saluted him respectfully as he drew near , along mossy walks and through sweeping grassy lawns where fountains were playing and flowers scented the air .
Wali Dad stood stunned and helpless .
` Fear not , ' said one of the peris ; ` go to your house , and learn that God rewards the simple-hearted . '
With these words they both disappeared and left him .
He walked on , thinking still that he must be dreaming .
Very soon he retired to rest in a splendid room , far grander than anything he had ever dreamed of .
When morning dawned he woke , and found that the palace , and himself , and his servants were all real , and that he was not dreaming after all !
If he was dumbfounded , the merchant , who was ushered into his presence soon after sunrise , was much more so .
He told Wali Dad that he had not slept all night , and by the first streak of daylight had started to seek out his friend .
And what a search he had had !
A great stretch of wild jungle country had , in the night , been changed into parks and gardens ; and if it had not been for some of Wali Dad 's new servants , who found him and brought him to the palace , he would have fled away under the impression that his trouble had sent him crazy , and that all he saw was only imagination .
Then Wali Dad told the merchant all that had happened .
By his advice he sent an invitation to the king and princess of Khaistan to come and be his guests , together with all their retinue and servants , down to the very humblest in the camp .
For three nights and days a great feast was held in honour of the royal guests .
Every evening the king and his nobles were served on golden plates and from golden cups ; and the smaller people on silver plates and from silver cups ; and each evening each guest was requested to keep the places and cups that they had used as a remembrance of the occasion .
Never had anything so splendid been seen .
Besides the great dinners , there were sports and hunting , and dances , and amusements of all sorts .
On the fourth day the king of Khaistan took his host aside , and asked him whether it was true , as he had suspected , that he wished to marry his daughter .
But Wali Dad , after thanking him very much for the compliment , said that he had never dreamed of so great an honour , and that he was far too old and ugly for so fair a lady ; but he begged the king to stay with him until he could send for the Prince of Nekabad , who was a most excellent , brave , and honourable young man , and would surely be delighted to try to win the hand of the beautiful princess .
To this the king agreed , and Wali Dad sent the merchant to Nekabad , with a number of attendants , and with such handsome presents that the prince came at once , fell head over ears in love with the princess , and married her at Wali Dad 's palace amidst a fresh outburst of rejoicings .
And now the King of Khaistan and the Prince and Princess of Nekabad , each went back to their own country ; and Wali Dad lived to a good old age , befriending all who were in trouble and preserving , in his prosperity , the simple-hearted and generous nature that he had when he was only Wali Dad Gunjay , the grass cutter .
-LSB- Told the author by an Indian . -RSB-
Tale of a Tortoise and of a Mischievous Monkey Once upon a time there was a country where the rivers were larger , and the forests deeper , than anywhere else .
Hardly any men came there , and the wild creatures had it all to themselves , and used to play all sorts of strange games with each other .
The great trees , chained one to the other by thick flowering plants with bright scarlet or yellow blossoms , were famous hiding-places for the monkeys , who could wait unseen , till a puma or an elephant passed by , and then jump on their backs and go for a ride , swinging themselves up by the creepers when they had had enough .
Near the rivers huge tortoises were to be found , and though to our eyes a tortoise seems a dull , slow thing , it is wonderful to think how clever they were , and how often they outwitted many of their livelier friends .
There was one tortoise in particular that always managed to get the better of everybody , and many were the tales told in the forest of his great deeds .
They began when he was quite young , and tired of staying at home with his father and mother .
He left them one day , and walked off in search of adventures .
In a wide open space surrounded by trees he met with an elephant , who was having his supper before taking his evening bath in the river which ran close by .
` Let us see which of us two is strongest , ' said the young tortoise , marching up to the elephant .
` Very well , ' replied the elephant , much amused at the impertinence of the little creature ; ` when would you like the trial to be ? '
` In an hour 's time ; I have some business to do first , ' answered the tortoise .
And he hastened away as fast as his short legs would carry him .
In a pool of the river a whale was resting , blowing water into the air and making a lovely fountain .
The tortoise , however , was too young and too busy to admire such things , and he called to the whale to stop , as he wanted to speak to him .
` Would you like to try which of us is the stronger ? '
said he .
The whale looked at him , sent up another fountain , and answered : ` Oh , yes ; certainly .
When do you wish to begin ?
I am quite ready . '
` Then give me one of your longest bones , and I will fasten it to my leg .
When I give the signal , you must pull , and we will see which can pull the hardest . '
` Very good , ' replied the whale ; and he took out one of his bones and passed it to the tortoise .
The tortoise picked up the end of the bone in his mouth and went back to the elephant . '
I will fasten this to your leg , ' said he , ` in the same way as it is fastened to mine , and we must both pull as hard as we can .
We shall soon see which is the stronger . '
So he wound it carefully round the elephant 's leg , and tied it in a firm knot .
` Now ! '
cried he , plunging into a thick bush behind him .
The whale tugged at one end , and the elephant tugged at the other , and neither had any idea that he had not the tortoise for his foe .
When the whale pulled hardest the elephant was dragged into the water ; and when the elephant pulled the hardest the whale was hauled on to the land .
They were very evenly matched , and the battle was a hard one .
At last they were quite tired , and the tortoise , who was watching , saw that they could play no more .
So he crept from his hiding-place , and dipping himself in the river , he went to the elephant and said : ' I see that you really are stronger than I thought .
Suppose we give it up for to-day ? '
Then he dried himself on some moss and went to the whale and said : ' I see that you really are stronger than I thought .
Suppose we give it up for to-day ? '
The two adversaries were only too glad to be allowed to rest , and believed to the end of their days that , after all , the tortoise was stronger than either of them .
A day or two later the young tortoise was taking a stroll , when he met a fox , and stopped to speak to him .
` Let us try , ' said he in a careless manner , ` which of us can lie buried in the ground during seven years . ' '
I shall be delighted , ' answered the fox , ` only I would rather that you began . '
` It is all the same to me , ' replied the tortoise ; ` if you come round this way to-morrow you will see that I have fulfilled my part of the bargain . '
So he looked about for a suitable place , and found a convenient hole at the foot of an orange tree .
He crept into it , and the next morning the fox heaped up the earth round him , and promised to feed him every day with fresh fruit .
The fox so far kept his word that each morning when the sun rose he appeared to ask how the tortoise was getting on .
` Oh , very well ; but I wish you would give me some fruit , ' replied he .
` Alas !
the fruit is not ripe enough yet for you to eat , ' answered the fox , who hoped that the tortoise would die of hunger long before the seven years were over .
` Oh dear , oh dear !
I am so hungry ! '
cried the tortoise . '
I am sure you must be ; but it will be all right to-morrow , ' said the fox , trotting off , not knowing that the oranges dropped down the hollow trunk , straight into the tortoise 's hole , and that he had as many as he could possibly eat .
So the seven years went by ; and when the tortoise came out of his hole he was as fat as ever .
Now it was the fox 's turn , and he chose his hole , and the tortoise heaped the earth round , promising to return every day or two with a nice young bird for his dinner .
` Well , how are you getting on ? '
he would ask cheerfully when he paid his visits .
` Oh , all right ; only I wish you had brought a bird with you , ' answered the fox . '
I have been so unlucky , I have never been able to catch one , ' replied the tortoise .
` However , I shall be more fortunate to-morrow , I am sure . '
But not many to-morrows after , when the tortoise arrived with his usual question : ` Well , how are you getting on ? '
he received no answer , for the fox was lying in his hole quite still , dead of hunger .
By this time the tortoise was grown up , and was looked up to throughout the forest as a person to be feared for his strength and wisdom .
But he was not considered a very swift runner , until an adventure with a deer added to his fame .
One day , when he was basking in the sun , a stag passed by , and stopped for a little conversation .
` Would you care to see which of us can run fastest ? '
asked the tortoise , after some talk .
The stag thought the question so silly that he only shrugged his shoulders .
` Of course , the victor would have the right to kill the other , ' went on the tortoise .
` Oh , on that condition I agree , ' answered the deer ; ` but I am afraid you are a dead man . '
` It is no use trying to frighten me , ' replied the tortoise .
` But I should like three days for training ; then I shall be ready to start when the sun strikes on the big tree at the edge of the great clearing . '
The first thing the tortoise did was to call his brothers and his cousins together , and he posted them carefully under ferns all along the line of the great clearing , making a sort of ladder which stretched for many miles .
This done to his satisfaction , he went back to the starting place .
The stag was quite punctual , and as soon as the sun 's rays struck the trunk of the tree the stag started off , and was soon far out of the sight of the tortoise .
Every now and then he would turn his head as he ran , and call out : ` How are you getting on ? '
and the tortoise who happened to be nearest at that moment would answer : ` All right , I am close up to you . '
Full of astonishment , the stag would redouble his efforts , but it was no use .
Each time he asked : ` Are you there ? '
the answer would come : ` Yes , of course , where else should I be ? '
And the stag ran , and ran , and ran , till he could run no more , and dropped down dead on the grass .
And the tortoise , when he thinks about it , laughs still .
But the tortoise was not the only creature of whose tricks stories were told in the forest .
There was a famous monkey who was just as clever and more mischievous , because he was so much quicker on his feet and with his hands .
It was quite impossible to catch him and give him the thrashing he so often deserved , for he just swung himself up into a tree and laughed at the angry victim who was sitting below .
Sometimes , however , the inhabitants of the forest were so foolish as to provoke him , and then they got the worst of it .
This was what happened to the barber , whom the monkey visited one morning , saying that he wished to be shaved .
The barber bowed politely to his customer , and begging him to be seated , tied a large cloth round his neck , and rubbed his chin with soap ; but instead of cutting off his beard , the barber made a snip at the end of his tail .
It was only a very little bit and the monkey started up more in rage than in pain .
` Give me back the end of my tail , ' he roared , ` or I will take one of your razors . '
The barber refused to give back the missing piece , so the monkey caught up a razor from the table and ran away with it , and no one in the forest could be shaved for days , as there was not another to be got for miles and miles .
As he was making his way to his own particular palm-tree , where the cocoanuts grew , which were so useful for pelting passers-by , he met a woman who was scaling a fish with a bit of wood , for in this side of the forest a few people lived in huts near the river .
` That must be hard work , ' said the monkey , stopping to look ; ` try my knife -- you will get on quicker . '
And he handed her the razor as he spoke .
A few days later he came back and rapped at the door of the hut . '
I have called for my razor , ' he said , when the woman appeared . '
I have lost it , ' answered she .
` If you do n't give it to me at once I will take your sardine , ' replied the monkey , who did not believe her .
The woman protested she had not got the knife , so he took the sardine and ran off .
A little further along he saw a baker who was standing at the door , eating one of his loaves .
` That must be rather dry , ' said the monkey , ` try my fish ' ; and the man did not need twice telling .
A few days later the monkey stopped again at the baker 's hut .
` I 've called for that fish , ' he said .
` That fish ?
But I have eaten it ! '
exclaimed the baker in dismay .
` If you have eaten it I shall take this barrel of meal in exchange , ' replied the monkey ; and he walked off with the barrel under his arm .
As he went he saw a woman with a group of little girls round her , teaching them how to dress hair .
` Here is something to make cakes for the children , ' he said , putting down his barrel , which by this time he found rather heavy .
The children were delighted , and ran directly to find some flat stones to bake their cakes on , and when they had made and eaten them , they thought they had never tasted anything so nice .
Indeed , when they saw the monkey approaching not long after , they rushed to meet him , hoping that he was bringing them some more presents .
But he took no notice of their questions , he only said to their mother : ` I 've called for my barrel of meal . '
` Why , you gave it to me to make cakes of ! '
cried the mother .
` If I ca n't get my barrel of meal , I shall take one of your children , ' answered the monkey . '
I am in want of somebody who can bake my bread when I am tired of fruit , and who knows how to make cocoanut cakes . '
` Oh , leave me my child , and I will find you another barrel of meal , ' wept the mother . '
I do n't WANT another barrel , I want THAT one , ' answered the monkey sternly .
And as the woman stood wringing her hands , he caught up the little girl that he thought the prettiest and took her to his home in the palm tree .
She never went back to the hut , but on the whole she was not much to be pitied , for monkeys are nearly as good as children to play with , and they taught her how to swing , and to climb , and to fly from tree to tree , and everything else they knew , which was a great deal .
Now the monkey 's tiresome tricks had made him many enemies in the forest , but no one hated him so much as the puma .
The cause of their quarrel was known only to themselves , but everybody was aware of the fact , and took care to be out of the way when there was any chance of these two meeting .
Often and often the puma had laid traps for the monkey , which he felt sure his foe could not escape ; and the monkey would pretend that he saw nothing , and rejoice the hidden puma 's heart by seeming to walk straight into the snare , when , lo !
a loud laugh would be heard , and the monkey 's grinning face would peer out of a mass of creepers and disappear before his foe could reach him .
This state of things had gone on for quite a long while , when at last there came a season such as the oldest parrot in the forest could never remember .
Instead of two or three hundred inches of rain falling , which they were all accustomed to , month after month passed without a cloud , and the rivers and springs dried up , till there was only one small pool left for everyone to drink from .
There was not an animal for miles round that did not grieve over this shocking condition of affairs , not one at least except the puma .
His only thought for years had been how to get the monkey into his power , and this time he imagined his chance had really arrived .
He would hide himself in a thicket , and when the monkey came down to drink -- and come he must -- the puma would spring out and seize him .
Yes , on this occasion there could be no escape !
And no more there would have been if the puma had had greater patience ; but in his excitement he moved a little too soon .
The monkey , who was stooping to drink , heard a rustling , and turning caught the gleam of two yellow , murderous eyes .
With a mighty spring he grasped a creeper which was hanging above him , and landed himself on the branch of a tree ; feeling the breath of the puma on his feet as the animal bounded from is cover .
Never had the monkey been so near death , and it was some time before he recovered enough courage to venture on the ground again .
Up there in the shelter of the trees , he began to turn over in his head plans for escaping the snares of the puma .
And at length chance helped him .
Peeping down to the earth , he saw a man coming along the path carrying on his head a large gourd filled with honey .
He waited till the man was just underneath the tree , then he hung from a bough , and caught the gourd while the man looked up wondering , for he was no tree-climber .
Then the monkey rubbed the honey all over him , and a quantity of leaves from a creeper that was hanging close by ; he stuck them all close together into the honey , so that he looked like a walking bush .
This finished , he ran to the pool to see the result , and , quite pleased with himself , set out in search of adventures .
Soon the report went through the forest that a new animal had appeared from no one knew where , and that when somebody had asked his name , the strange creature had answered that it was Jack-in-the-Green .
Thanks to this , the monkey was allowed to drink at the pool as often as he liked , for neither beast nor bird had the faintest notion who he was .
And if they made any inquiries the only answer they got was that the water of which he had drunk deeply had turned his hair into leaves , so that they all knew what would happen in case they became too greedy .
By-and-by the great rains began again .
The rivers and streams filled up , and there was no need for him to go back to the pool , near the home of his enemy , the puma , as there was a large number of places for him to choose from .
So one night , when everything was still and silent , and even the chattering parrots were asleep on one leg , the monkey stole down softly from his perch , and washed off the honey and the leaves , and came out from his bath in his own proper skin .
On his way to breakfast he met a rabbit , and stopped for a little talk . '
I am feeling rather dull , ' he remarked ; ' I think it would do me good to hunt a while .
What do you say ? '
` Oh , I am quite willing , ' answered the rabbit , proud of being spoken to by such a large creature .
` But the question is , what shall we hunt ? '
` There is no credit in going after an elephant or a tiger , ' replied the monkey stroking his chin , ` they are so big they could not possibly get out of your way .
It shows much more skill to be able to catch a small thing that can hide itself in a moment behind a leaf .
I 'll tell you what !
Suppose I hunt butterflies , and you , serpents . '
The rabbit , who was young and without experience , was delighted with this idea , and they both set out on their various ways .
The monkey quietly climbed up the nearest tree , and ate fruit most of the day , but the rabbit tired himself to death poking his nose into every heap of dried leaves he saw , hoping to find a serpent among them .
Luckily for himself the serpents were all away for the afternoon , at a meeting of their own , for there is nothing a serpent likes so well for dinner as a nice plump rabbit .
But , as it was , the dried leaves were all empty , and the rabbit at last fell asleep where he was .
Then the monkey , who had been watching him , fell down and pulled his ears , to the rage of the rabbit , who vowed vengeance .
It was not easy to catch the monkey off his guard , and the rabbit waited long before an opportunity arrived .
But one day Jack-in-the-Green was sitting on a stone , wondering what he should do next , when the rabbit crept softly behind him , and gave his tail a sharp pull .
The monkey gave a shriek of pain , and darted up into a tree , but when he saw that it was only the rabbit who had dared to insult him so , he chattered so fast in his anger , and looked so fierce , that the rabbit fled into the nearest hole , and stayed there for several days , trembling with fright .
Soon after this adventure the monkey went away into another part of the country , right on the outskirts of the forest , where there was a beautiful garden full of oranges hanging ripe from the trees .
This garden was a favourite place for birds of all kinds , each hoping to secure an orange for dinner , and in order to frighten the birds away and keep a little fruit for himself , the master had fastened a waxen figure on one of the boughs .
Now the monkey was as fond of oranges as any of the birds , and when he saw a man standing in the tree where the largest and sweetest oranges grew , he spoke to him at once .
` You man , ' he said rudely , ` throw me down that big orange up there , or I will throw a stone at you . '
The wax figure took no notice of this request , so the monkey , who was easily made angry , picked up a stone , and flung it with all his force .
But instead of falling to the ground again , the stone stuck to the soft wax .
At this moment a breeze shook the tree , and the orange on which the monkey had set his heart dropped from the bough .
He picked it up and ate it every bit , including the rind , and it was so good he thought he should like another .
So he called again to the wax figure to throw him an orange , and as the figure did not move , he hurled another stone , which stuck to the wax as the first had done .
Seeing that the man was quite indifferent to stones , the monkey grew more angry still , and climbing the tree hastily , gave the figure a violent kick .
But like the two stones his leg remained stuck to the wax , and he was held fast .
` Let me go at once , or I will give you another kick , ' he cried , suiting the action to the word , and this time also his foot remained in the grasp of the man .
Not knowing what he did , the monkey hit out , first with one hand and then with the other , and when he found that he was literally bound hand and foot , he became so mad with anger and terror that in his struggles he fell to the ground , dragging the figure after him .
This freed his hands and feet , but besides the shock of the fall , they had tumbled into a bed of thorns , and he limped away broken and bruised , and groaning loudly ; for when monkeys ARE hurt , they take pains that everybody shall know it .
It was a long time before Jack was well enough to go about again ; but when he did , he had an encounter with his old enemy the puma .
And this was how it came about .
One day the puma invited his friend the stag to go with him and see a comrade , who was famous for the good milk he got from his cows .
The stag loved milk , and gladly accepted the invitation , and when the sun began to get a little low the two started on their walk .
On the way they arrived on the banks of a river , and as there were no bridges in those days it was necessary to swim across it .
The stag was not fond of swimming , and began to say that he was tired , and thought that after all it was not worth going so far to get milk , and that he would return home .
But the puma easily saw through these excuses , and laughed at him .
` The river is not deep at all , ' he said ; ` why , you will never be off your feet .
Come , pluck up your courage and follow me . '
The stag was afraid of the river ; still , he was much more afraid of being laughed at , and he plunged in after the puma ; but in an instant the current had swept him away , and if it had not borne him by accident to a shallow place on the opposite side , where he managed to scramble up the bank , he would certainly have been drowned .
As it was , he scrambled out , shaking with terror , and found the puma waiting for him .
` You had a narrow escape that time , ' said the puma .
After resting for a few minutes , to let the stag recover from his fright , they went on their way till they came to a grove of bananas .
` They look very good , ' observed the puma with a longing glance , ` and I am sure you must be hungry , friend stag ?
Suppose you were to climb the tree and get some .
You shall eat the green ones , they are the best and sweetest ; and you can throw the yellow ones down to me .
I dare say they will do quite well ! '
The stag did as he was bid , though , not being used to climbing , it gave him a deal of trouble and sore knees , and besides , his horns were continually getting entangled in the creepers .
What was worse , when once he had tasted the bananas , he found them not at all to his liking , so he threw them all down , green and yellow alike , and let the puma take his choice .
And what a dinner he made !
When he had QUITE done , they set forth once more .
The path lay through a field of maize , where several men were working .
As they came up to them , the puma whispered : ` Go on in front , friend stag , and just say `` Bad luck to all workers ! '' '
The stag obeyed , but the men were hot and tired , and did not think this a good joke .
So they set their dogs at him , and he was obliged to run away as fast as he could . '
I hope your industry will be rewarded as it deserves , ' said the puma as he passed along ; and the men were pleased , and offered him some of their maize to eat .
By-and-by the puma saw a small snake with a beautiful shining skin , lying coiled up at the foot of a tree .
` What a lovely bracelet that would make for your daughter , friend stag !
said he .
The stag stooped and picked up the snake , which bit him , and he turned angrily to the puma .
` Why did you not tell me it would bite ? '
he asked .
` Is it my fault if you are an idiot ? '
replied the puma .
At last they reached their journey 's end , but by this time it was late , and the puma 's comrade was ready for bed , so they slung their hammocks in convenient places , and went to sleep .
But in the middle of the night the puma rose softly and stole out of the door to the sheep-fold , where he killed and ate the fattest sheep he could find , and taking a bowl full of its blood , he sprinkled the sleeping stag with it .
This done , he returned to bed .
In the morning the shepherd went as usual to let the sheep out of the fold , and found one of them missing .
He thought directly of the puma , and ran to accuse him of having eaten the sheep .
` I , my good man ?
What had put it into your head to think of such a thing ?
Have I got any blood about me ?
If anyone has eaten a sheep it must be my friend the stag . '
Then the shepherd went to examine the sleeping stag , and of course he saw the blood .
` Ah !
I will teach you how to steal ! '
cried he , and he hit the stag such a blow on his skull that he died in a moment .
The noise awakened the comrade above , and he came downstairs .
The puma greeted him with joy , and begged he might have some of the famous milk as soon as possible , for he was very thirsty .
A large bucket was set before the puma directly .
He drank it to the last drop , and then took leave .
On his way home he met the monkey .
` Are you fond of milk ? '
asked he . '
I know a place where you get it very nice .
I will show you it if you like . '
The monkey knew that the puma was not so good-natured for nothing , but he felt quite able to take care of himself , so he said he should have much pleasure in accompanying his friend .
They soon reached the same river , and , as before , the puma remarked : ` Friend monkey , you will find it very shallow ; there is no cause for fear .
Jump in and I will follow . '
` Do you think you have the stag to deal with ? '
asked the monkey , laughing . '
I should prefer to follow ; if not I shall go no further .
The puma understood that it was useless trying to make the monkey do as he wished , so he chose a shallow place and began to swim across .
The monkey waited till the puma had got to the middle , then he gave a great spring and jumped on his back , knowing quite well that the puma would be afraid to shake him off , lest he should be swept away into deep water .
So in this manner they reached the bank .
The banana grove was not far distant , and here the puma thought he would pay the monkey out for forcing him to carry him over the river .
` Friend monkey , look what fine bananas , ' cried he .
` You are fond of climbing ; suppose you run up and throw me down a few .
You can eat the green ones , which are the nicest , and I will be content with the yellow . '
` Very well , ' answered the monkey , swinging himself up ; but he ate all the yellow ones himself , and only threw down the green ones that were left .
The puma was furious and cried out : ' I will punch your head for that . '
But the monkey only answered : ` If you are gong to talk such nonsense I wo n't walk with you . '
And the puma was silent .
In a few minutes more they arrived at the field were the men were reaping the maize , and the puma remarked as he had done before : ` Friend monkey , if you wish to please these men , just say as you go by : `` Bad luck to all workers . ''
` Very well , ' replied the monkey ; but , instead , he nodded and smiled , and said : ' I hope your industry may be rewarded as it deserves . '
The men thanked him heartily , let him pass on , and the puma followed behind him .
Further along the path they saw the shining snake lying on the moss .
` What a lovely necklace for your daughter , ' exclaimed the puma .
` Pick it up and take it with you . '
` You are very kind , but I will leave it for you , ' answered the monkey , and nothing more was said about the snake .
Not long after this they reached the comrade 's house , and found him just ready to go to bed .
So , without stopping to talk , the guests slung their hammocks , the monkey taking care to place his so high that no one could get at him .
Besides , he thought it would be more prudent not to fall asleep , so he only lay still and snored loudly .
When it was quite dark and no sound was to be heard , the puma crept out to the sheep-fold , killed the sheep , and carried back a bowl full of its blood with which to sprinkle the monkey .
But the monkey , who had been watching out of the corner of his eye , waited until the puma drew near , and with a violent kick upset the bowl all over the puma himself .
When the puma saw what had happened , he turned in a great hurry to leave the house , but before he could do so , he saw the shepherd coming , and hastily lay down again .
` This is the second time I have lost a sheep , ' the man said to the monkey ; ` it will be the worse for the thief when I catch him , I can tell you . '
The monkey did not answer , but silently pointed to the puma who was pretending to be asleep .
The shepherd stooped and saw the blood , and cried out : ` Ah !
so it is you , is it ?
then take that ! '
and with his stick he gave the puma such a blow on the head that he died then and there .
Then the monkey got up and went to the dairy , and drank all the milk he could find .
Afterwards he returned home and married , and that is the last we heard of him .
-LSB- Adapted from Folk-lore Bresilien . -RSB-
The Knights of the Fish Once upon a time there lived an old cobbler who worked hard at his trade from morning till night , and scarcely gave himself a moment to eat .
But , industrious as he was , he could hardly buy bread and cheese for himself and his wife , and they grew thinner and thinner daily .
For a long while whey pretended to each other that they had no appetite , and that a few blackberries from the hedges were a great deal nicer than a good strong bowl of soup .
But at length there came a day when the cobbler could bear it no longer , and he threw away his last , and borrowing a rod from a neighbour he went out to fish .
Now the cobbler was as patient about fishing as he had been about cobbling .
From dawn to dark he stood on the banks of the little stream , without hooking anything better than an eel , or a few old shoes , that even he , clever though he was , felt were not worth mending .
At length his patience began to give way , and as he undressed one night he said to himself : ` Well , I will give it one more chance ; and if I do n't catch a fish to-morrow , I will go and hang myself . '
He had not cast his line for ten minutes the next morning before he drew from the river the most beautiful fish he had ever seen in his life .
But he nearly fell into the water from surprise , when the fish began to speak to him , in a small , squeaky voice : ` Take me back to your hut and cook me ; then cut me up , and sprinkle me over with pepper and salt .
Give two of the pieces to your wife , and bury two more in the garden . '
The cobbler did not know what to make of these strange words ; but he was wiser than many people , and when he did not understand , he thought it was well to obey .
His children wanted to eat all the fish themselves , and begged their father to tell them what to do with the pieces he had put aside ; but the cobbler only laughed , and told them it was no business of theirs .
And when they were safe in bed he stole out and buried the two pieces in the garden .
By and by two babies , exactly alike , lay in a cradle , and in the garden were two tall plants , with two brilliant shields on the top .
Years passed away , and the babies were almost men .
They were tired of living quietly at home , being mistaken for each other by everybody they saw , and determined to set off in different directions , to seek adventures .
So , one fine morning , the two brothers left the hut , and walked together to the place where the great road divided .
There they embraced and parted , promising that if anything remarkable had happened to either , he would return to the cross roads and wait till his brother came .
The youth who took the path that ran eastwards arrived presently at a large city , where he found everybody standing at the doors , wringing their hands and weeping bitterly .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he , pausing and looking round .
And a man replied , in a faltering voice , that each year a beautiful girl was chosen by lot to be offered up to a dreadful fiery dragon , who had a mother even worse than himself , and this year the lot had fallen on their peerless princess .
` But where IS the princess ? '
said the young man once more , and again the man answered him : ` She is standing under a tree , a mile away , waiting for the dragon . '
This time the Knight of the Fish did not stop to hear more , but ran off as fast as he could , and found the princess bathed in tears , and trembling from head to foot .
She turned as she heard the sound of his sword , and removed her handkerchief from his eyes .
` Fly , ' she cried ; ` fly while you have yet time , before that monster sees you . '
She said it , and she mean it ; yet , when he had turned his back , she felt more forsaken than before .
But in reality it was not more than a few minutes before he came back , galloping furiously on a horse he had borrowed , and carrying a huge mirror across its neck . '
I am in time , then , ' he cried , dismounting very carefully , and placing the mirror against the trunk of a tree .
` Give me your veil , ' he said hastily to the princess .
And when she had unwound it from her head he covered the mirror with it .
` The moment the dragon comes near you , you must tear off the veil , ' cried he ; ` and be sure you hide behind the mirror .
Have no fear ; I shall be at hand . '
He and his horse had scarcely found shelter amongst some rocks , when the flap of the dragon 's wings could be plainly heard .
He tossed his head with delight at the sight of her , and approached slowly to the place where she stood , a little in front of the mirror .
Then , still looking the monster steadily in the face , she passed one hand behind her back and snatched off the veil , stepping swiftly behind the tree as she did so .
The princess had not known , when she obeyed the orders of the Knight of the Fish , what she expected to happen .
Would the dragon with snaky locks be turned to stone , she wondered , like the dragon in an old story her nurse had told her ; or would some fiery spark dart from the heart of the mirror , and strike him dead ?
Neither of these things occurred , but , instead , the dragon stopped short with surprise and rage when he saw a monster before him as big and strong as himself .
He shook his mane with rage and fury ; the enemy in front did exactly the same .
He lashed his tail , and rolled his red eyes , and the dragon opposite was no whit behind him .
Opening his mouth to its very widest , he gave an awful roar ; but the other dragon only roared back .
This was too much , and with another roar which made the princess shake in her shoes , he flung himself upon his foe .
In an instant the mirror lay at his feet broken into a thousand pieces , but as every piece reflected part of himself , the dragon thought that he too had been smashed into atoms .
It was the moment for which the Knight of the Fish had watched and waited , and before the dragon could find out that he was not hurt at all , the young man 's lance was down his throat , and he was rolling , dead , on the grass .
Oh !
what shouts of joy rang through the great city , when the youth came riding back with the princess sitting behind him , and dragging the horrible monster by a cord .
Everybody cried out that the king must give the victor the hand of the princess ; and so he did , and no one had ever seen such balls and feasts and sports before .
And when they were all over the young couple went to the palace prepared for them , which was so large that it was three miles round .
The first wet day after their marriage the bridegroom begged the bride to show him all the rooms in the palace , and it was so big and took so long that the sun was shining brightly again before they stepped on to the roof to see the view .
` What castle is that out there , ' asked the knight ; ` it seems to be made of black marble ? '
` It is called the castle of Albatroz , ' answered the princess .
` It is enchanted , and no one that has tried to enter it has ever come back . '
Her husband said nothing , and began to talk of something else ; but the next morning he ordered his horse , took his spear , called his bloodhound , and set off for the castle .
It needed a brave man to approach it , for it made your hair stand on end merely to look at it ; it was as dark as the night of a storm , and as silent as the grave .
But the Knight of the Fish knew no fear , and had never turned his back on an enemy ; so he drew out his horn , and blew a blast .
The sound awoke all the sleeping echoes in the castle , and was repeated now loudly , now softly ; now near , and now far .
But nobody stirred for all that .
` Is there anyone inside ? '
cried the young man in his loudest voice ; ` anyone who will give a knight hospitality ?
Neither governor , nor squire , not even a page ? '
` Not even a page ! '
answered the echoes .
But the young man did not heed them , and only struck a furious blow at the gate .
Then a small grating opened , and there appeared the tip of a huge nose , which belonged to the ugliest old woman that ever was seen .
` What do you want ? '
said she .
` To enter , ' he answered shortly .
` Can I rest here this night ?
Yes or No ? '
` No , No , No ! '
repeated the echoes .
Between the fierce sun and his anger at being kept waiting , the Knight of the Fish had grown so hot that he lifted his visor , and when the old woman saw how handsome he was , she began fumbling with the lock of the gate .
` Come in , come in , ' said she , ` so fine a gentleman will do us no harm . '
` Harm ! '
repeated the echoes , but again the young man paid no heed .
` Let us go in , ancient dame , ' but she interrupted him .
` You must call me the Lady Berberisca , ' she answered , sharply ; ` and this is my castle , to which I bid you welcome .
You shall live here with me and be my husband . '
But at these words the knight let his spear fall , so surprised was he . '
I marry YOU ?
why you must be a hundred at least ! '
cried he .
` You are mad !
All I desire is to inspect the castle and then go . '
As he spoke he heard the voices give a mocking laugh ; but the old woman took no notice , and only bade the knight follow her .
Old though she was , it seemed impossible to tire her .
There was no room , however small , she did not lead him into , and each room was full of curious things he had never seen before .
At length they came to a stone staircase , which was so dark that you could not see your hand if you held it up before your face . '
I have kept my most precious treasure till the last , ' said the old woman ; ` but let me go first , for the stairs are steep , and you might easily break your leg . '
So on she went , now and then calling back to the young man in the darkness .
But he did not know that she had slipped aside into a recess , till suddenly he put his foot on a trap door which gave way under him , and he fell down , down , as many good knights had done before him , and his voice joined the echoes of theirs .
` So you would not marry me ! '
chuckled the old witch .
` Ha !
ha !
Ha !
ha ! '
Meanwhile his brother had wandered far and wide , and at last he wandered back to the same great city where the other young knight had met with so many adventures .
He noticed , with amazement , that as he walked through the streets the guards drew themselves up in line , and saluted him , and the drummers played the royal march ; but he was still more bewildered when several servants in livery ran up to him and told him that the princess was sure something terrible had befallen him , and had made herself ill with weeping .
At last it occurred to him that once more he had been taken for his brother . '
I had better say nothing , ' thought he ; ` perhaps I shall be able to help him after all . '
So he suffered himself to be borne in triumph to the palace , where the princess threw herself into his arms .
` And so you did go to the castle ? '
she asked .
` Yes , of course I did , ' answered he .
` And what did you see there ? ' '
I am forbidden to tell you anything about it , until I have returned there once more , ' replied he .
` Must you really go back to that dreadful place ? '
she asked wistfully .
` You are the only man who has ever come back from it . ' '
I must , ' was all he answered .
And the princess , who was a wise woman , only said : ` Well , go to bed now , for I am sure you must be very tired . '
But the knight shook his head . '
I have sworn never to lie in a bed as long as my work in the castle remains standing . '
And the princess again sighed , and was silent .
Early next day the young man started for the castle , feeling sure that some terrible thing must have happened to his brother .
At the blast of his horn the long nose of the old woman appeared at the grating , but the moment she caught sight of his face , she nearly fainted from fright , as she thought it was the ghost of the youth whose bones were lying in the dungeon of the castle .
` Lady of all the ages , ' cried the new comer , ` did you not give hospitality to a young knight but a short time ago ? ' '
A short time ago ! '
wailed the voices .
` And how have you ill-treated him ? '
he went on .
` Ill-treated him ! '
answered the voices .
The woman did not stop to hear more ; she turned to fly ; but the knight 's sword entered her body .
` Where is my brother , cruel hag ? '
asked he sternly . '
I will tell you , ' said she ; ` but as I feel that I am going to die I shall keep that piece of news to myself , till you have brought me to life again . '
The young man laughed scornfully .
` How do you propose that I should work that miracle ? '
` Oh , it is quite easy .
Go into the garden and gather the flowers of the everlasting plant and some of dragon 's blood .
Crush them together and boil them in a large tub of water , and then put me into it . '
The knight did as the old witch bade him , and , sure enough , she came out quite whole , but uglier than ever .
She then told the young man what had become of his brother , and he went down into the dungeon , and brought up his body and the bodies of the other victims who lay there , and when they were all washed in the magic water their strength was restored to them .
And , besides these , he found in another cavern the bodies of the girls who had been sacrificed to the dragon , and brought them back to life also .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Crimson_Fairy_Book.txt.out
Lovely Ilonka There was once a king 's son who told his father that he wished to marry .
` No , no ! '
said the king ; ` you must not be in such a hurry .
Wait till you have done some great deed .
My father did not let me marry till I had won the golden sword you see me wear . '
The prince was much disappointed , but he never dreamed of disobeying his father , and he began to think with all his might what he could do .
It was no use staying at home , so one day he wandered out into the world to try his luck , and as he walked along he came to a little hut in which he found an old woman crouching over the fire .
` Good evening , mother .
I see you have lived long in this world ; do you know anything about the three bulrushes ? '
` Yes , indeed , I 've lived long and been much about in the world , but I have never seen or heard anything of what you ask .
Still , if you will wait till to-morrow I may be able to tell you something . '
Well , he waited till the morning , and quite early the old woman appeared and took out a little pipe and blew in it , and in a moment all the crows in the world were flying about her .
Not one was missing .
Then she asked if they knew anything about the three bulrushes , but not one of them did .
The prince went on his way , and a little further on he found another hut in which lived an old man .
On being questioned the old man said he knew nothing , but begged the prince to stay overnight , and the next morning the old man called all the ravens together , but they too had nothing to tell .
The prince bade him farewell and set out .
He wandered so far that he crossed seven kingdoms , and at last , one evening , he came to a little house in which was an old woman .
` Good evening , dear mother , ' said he politely .
` Good evening to you , my dear son , ' answered the old woman .
` It is lucky for you that you spoke to me or you would have met with a horrible death .
But may I ask where are you going ? ' '
I am seeking the three bulrushes .
Do you know anything about them ? ' '
I do n't know anything myself , but wait till to-morrow .
Perhaps I can tell you then . '
So the next morning she blew on her pipe , and lo !
and behold every magpie in the world flew up .
That is to say , all the magpies except one who had broken a leg and a wing .
The old woman sent after it at once , and when she questioned the magpies the crippled one was the only one who knew where the three bulrushes were .
Then the prince started off with the lame magpie .
They went on and on till they reached a great stone wall , many , many feet high .
` Now , prince , ' said the magpie , ` the three bulrushes are behind that wall . '
The prince wasted no time .
He set his horse at the wall and leaped over it .
Then he looked about for the three bulrushes , pulled them up and set off with them on his way home .
As he rode along one of the bulrushes happened to knock against something .
It split open and , only think !
out sprang a lovely girl , who said : ` My heart 's love , you are mine and I am yours ; do give me a glass of water . '
But how could the prince give it her when there was no water at hand ?
So the lovely maiden flew away .
He split the second bulrush as an experiment and just the same thing happened .
How careful he was of the third bulrush !
He waited till he came to a well , and there he split it open , and out sprang a maiden seven times lovelier than either of the others , and she too said : ` My heart 's love , I am yours and you are mine ; do give me a glass of water . '
This time the water was ready and the girl did not fly away , but she and the prince promised to love each other always .
Then they set out for home .
They soon reached the prince 's country , and as he wished to bring his promised bride back in a fine coach he went on to the town to fetch one .
In the field where the well was , the king 's swineherds and cowherds were feeding their droves , and the prince left Ilonka -LRB- for that was her name -RRB- in their care .
Unluckily the chief swineherd had an ugly old daughter , and whilst the prince was away he dressed her up in fine clothes , and threw Ilonka into the well .
The prince returned before long , bringing with him his father and mother and a great train of courtiers to escort Ilonka home .
But how they all stared when they saw the swineherd 's ugly daughter !
However , there was nothing for it but to take her home ; and , two days later , the prince married her , and his father gave up the crown to him .
But he had no peace !
He knew very well he had been cheated , though he could not think how .
Once he desired to have some water brought him from the well into which Ilonka had been thrown .
The coachman went for it and , in the bucket he pulled up , a pretty little duck was swimming .
He looked wonderingly at it , and all of a sudden it disappeared and he found a dirty looking girl standing near him .
The girl returned with him and managed to get a place as housemaid in the palace .
Of course she was very busy all day long , but whenever she had a little spare time she sat down to spin .
Her distaff turned of itself and her spindle span by itself and the flax wound itself off ; and however much she might use there was always plenty left .
When the queen -- or , rather , the swineherd 's daughter -- heard of this , she very much wished to have the distaff , but the girl flatly refused to give it to her .
However , at last she consented on condition that she might sleep one night in the king 's room .
The queen was very angry , and scolded her well ; but as she longed to have the distaff she consented , though she gave the king a sleeping draught at supper .
Then the girl went to the king 's room looking seven times lovelier than ever .
She bent over the sleeper and said : ` My heart 's love , I am yours and you are mine .
Speak to me but once ; I am your Ilonka . '
But the king was so sound asleep he neither heard nor spoke , and Ilonka left the room , sadly thinking he was ashamed to own her .
Soon after the queen again sent to say that she wanted to buy the spindle .
The girl agreed to let her have it on the same conditions as before ; but this time , also , the queen took care to give the king a sleeping draught .
And once more Ilonka went to the king 's room and spoke to him ; whisper as sweetly as she might she could get no answer .
Now some of the king 's servants had taken note of the matter , and warned their master not to eat and drink anything that the queen offered him , as for two nights running she had given him a sleeping draught .
The queen had no idea that her doings had been discovered ; and when , a few days later , she wanted the flax , and had to pay the same price for it , she felt no fears at all .
At supper that night the queen offered the king all sorts of nice things to eat and drink , but he declared he was not hungry , and went early to bed .
The queen repented bitterly her promise to the girl , but it was too late to recall it ; for Ilonka had already entered the king 's room , where he lay anxiously waiting for something , he knew not what .
All of a sudden he saw a lovely maiden who bent over him and said : ` My dearest love , I am yours and you are mine .
Speak to me , for I am your Ilonka . '
At these words the king 's heart bounded within him .
He sprang up and embraced and kissed her , and she told him all her adventures since the moment he had left her .
And when he heard all that Ilonka had suffered , and how he had been deceived , he vowed he would be revenged ; so he gave orders that the swineherd , his wife and daughter should all be hanged ; and so they were .
The next day the king was married , with great rejoicings , to the fair Ilonka ; and if they are not yet dead -- why , they are still living .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrehen . -RSB-
Lucky Luck Once upon a time there was a king who had an only son .
When the lad was about eighteen years old his father had to go to fight in a war against a neighbouring country , and the king led his troops in person .
He bade his son act as Regent in his absence , but ordered him on no account to marry till his return .
Time went by .
The prince ruled the country and never even thought of marrying .
But when he reached his twenty-fifth birthday he began to think that it might be rather nice to have a wife , and he thought so much that at last he got quite eager about it .
He remembered , however , what his father had said , and waited some time longer , till at last it was ten years since the king went out to war .
Then the prince called his courtiers about him and set off with a great retinue to seek a bride .
He hardly knew which way to go , so he wandered about for twenty days , when , suddenly , he found himself in his father 's camp .
The king was delighted to see his son , and had a great many questions to ask and answer ; but when he heard that instead of quietly waiting for him at home the prince was starting off to seek a wife he was very angry , and said : ` You may go where you please but I will not leave any of my people with you . '
Only one faithful servant stayed with the prince and refused to part from him .
They journeyed over hill and dale till they came to a place called Goldtown .
The King of Goldtown had a lovely daughter , and the prince , who soon heard about her beauty , could not rest till he saw her .
He was very kindly received , for he was extremely good-looking and had charming manners , so he lost no time in asking for her hand and her parents gave her to him with joy .
The wedding took place at once , and the feasting and rejoicings went on for a whole month .
At the end of the month they set off for home , but as the journey was a long one they spent the first evening at an inn .
Everyone in the house slept , and only the faithful servant kept watch .
About midnight he heard three crows , who had flown to the roof , talking together .
` That 's a handsome couple which arrived here tonight .
It seems quite a pity they should lose their lives so soon . '
` Truly , ' said the second crow ; ` for to-morrow , when midday strikes , the bridge over the Gold Stream will break just as they are driving over it .
But , listen !
whoever overhears and tells what we have said will be turned to stone up to his knees . '
The crows had hardly done speaking when away they flew .
And close upon them followed three pigeons .
` Even if the prince and princess get safe over the bridge they will perish , ' said they ; ` for the king is going to send a carriage to meet them which looks as new as paint .
But when they are seated in it a raging wind will rise and whirl the carriage away into the clouds .
Then it will fall suddenly to earth , and they will be killed .
But anyone who hears and betrays what we have said will be turned to stone up to his waist . '
With that the pigeons flew off and three eagles took their places , and this is what they said : ` If the young couple does manage to escape the dangers of the bridge and the carriage , the king means to send them each a splendid gold embroidered robe .
When they put these on they will be burnt up at once .
But whoever hears and repeats this will turn to stone from head to foot . '
Early next morning the travellers got up and breakfasted .
They began to tell each other their dreams .
At last the servant said : ` Gracious prince , I dreamt that if your Royal Highness would grant all I asked we should get home safe and sound ; but if you did not we should certainly be lost .
My dreams never deceive me , so I entreat you to follow my advice during the rest of the journey . '
` Do n't make such a fuss about a dream , ' said the prince ; ` dreams are but clouds .
Still , to prevent your being anxious I will promise to do as you wish . '
With that they set out on their journey .
At midday they reached the Gold Stream .
When they got to the bridge the servant said : ` Let us leave the carriage here , my prince , and walk a little way .
The town is not far off and we can easily get another carriage there , for the wheels of this one are bad and will not hold out much longer . '
The prince looked well at the carriage .
He did not think it looked so unsafe as his servant said ; but he had given his word and he held to it .
They got down and loaded the horses with the luggage .
The prince and his bride walked over the bridge , but the servant said he would ride the horses through the stream so as to water and bathe them .
They reached the other side without harm , and bought a new carriage in the town , which was quite near , and set off once more on their travels ; but they had not gone far when they met a messenger from the king who said to the prince : ` His Majesty has sent your Royal Highness this beautiful carriage so that you may make a fitting entry into your own country and amongst your own people . '
The prince was so delighted that he could not speak .
But the servant said : ` My lord , let me examine this carriage first and then you can get in if I find it is all right ; otherwise we had better stay in our own . '
The prince made no objections , and after looking the carriage well over the servant said : ` It is as bad as it is smart ' ; and with that he knocked it all to pieces , and they went on in the one that they had bought .
At last they reached the frontier ; there another messenger was waiting for them , who said that the king had sent two splendid robes for the prince and his bride , and begged that they would wear them for their state entry .
But the servant implored the prince to have nothing to do with them , and never gave him any peace till he had obtained leave to destroy the robes .
The old king was furious when he found that all his arts had failed ; that his son still lived and that he would have to give up the crown to him now he was married , for that was the law of the land .
He longed to know how the prince had escaped , and said : ` My dear son , I do indeed rejoice to have you safely back , but I can not imagine why the beautiful carriage and the splendid robes I sent did not please you ; why you had them destroyed . '
` Indeed , sire , ' said the prince , ' I was myself much annoyed at their destruction ; but my servant had begged to direct everything on the journey and I had promised him that he should do so .
He declared that we could not possibly get home safely unless I did as he told me . '
The old king fell into a tremendous rage .
He called his Council together and condemned the servant to death .
The gallows was put up in the square in front of the palace .
The servant was led out and his sentence read to him .
The rope was being placed round his neck , when he begged to be allowed a few last words .
` On our journey home , ' he said , ` we spent the first night at an inn .
I did not sleep but kept watch all night . '
And then he went on to tell what the crows had said , and as he spoke he turned to stone up to his knees .
The prince called to him to say no more as he had proved his innocence .
But the servant paid no heed to him , and by the time his story was done he had turned to stone from head to foot .
Oh !
how grieved the prince was to lose his faithful servant !
And what pained him most was the thought that he was lost through his very faithfulness , and he determined to travel all over the world and never rest till he found some means of restoring him to life .
Now there lived at Court an old woman who had been the prince 's nurse .
To her he confided all his plans , and left his wife , the princess , in her care .
` You have a long way before you , my son , ' said the old woman ; ` you must never return till you have met with Lucky Luck .
If he can not help you no one on earth can . '
So the prince set off to try to find Lucky Luck .
He walked and walked till he got beyond his own country , and he wandered through a wood for three days but did not meet a living being in it .
At the end of the third day he came to a river near which stood a large mill .
Here he spent the night .
When he was leaving next morning the miller asked him : ` My gracious lord , where are you going all alone ? '
And the prince told him .
` Then I beg your Highness to ask Lucky Luck this question : Why is it that though I have an excellent mill , with all its machinery complete , and get plenty of grain to grind , I am so poor that I hardly know how to live from one day to another ? '
The prince promised to inquire , and went on his way .
He wandered about for three days more , and at the end of the third day saw a little town .
It was quite late when he reached it , but he could discover no light anywhere , and walked almost right through it without finding a house where he could turn in .
But far away at the end of the town he saw a light in a window .
He went straight to it and in the house were three girls playing a game together .
The prince asked for a night 's lodging and they took him in , gave him some supper and got a room ready for him , where he slept .
Next morning when he was leaving they asked where he was going and he told them his story .
` Gracious prince , ' said the maidens , ` do ask Lucky Luck how it happens that here we are over thirty years old and no lover has come to woo us , though we are good , pretty , and very industrious . '
The prince promised to inquire , and went on his way .
Then he came to a great forest and wandered about in it from morning to night and from night to morning before he got near the other end .
Here he found a pretty stream which was different from other streams as , instead of flowing , it stood still and began to talk : ` Sir prince , tell me what brings you into these wilds ?
I must have been flowing here a hundred years and more and no one has ever yet come by . ' '
I will tell you , ' answered the prince , ` if you will divide yourself so that I may walk through . '
The stream parted at once , and the prince walked through without wetting his feet ; and directly he got to the other side he told his story as he had promised .
` Oh , do ask Lucky Luck , ' cried the brook , ` why , though I am such a clear , bright , rapid stream I never have a fish or any other living creature in my waters . '
The prince said he would do so , and continued his journey .
When he got quite clear of the forest he walked on through a lovely valley till he reached a little house thatched with rushes , and he went in to rest for he was very tired .
Everything in the house was beautifully clean and tidy , and a cheerful honest-looking old woman was sitting by the fire .
` Good-morning , mother , ' said the prince .
` May Luck be with you , my son .
What brings you into these parts ? ' '
I am looking for Lucky Luck , ' replied the prince .
` Then you have come to the right place , my son , for I am his mother .
He is not at home just now , he is out digging in the vineyard .
Do you go too .
Here are two spades .
When you find him begin to dig , but do n't speak a word to him .
It is now eleven o'clock .
When he sits down to eat his dinner sit beside him and eat with him .
After dinner he will question you , and then tell him all your troubles freely .
He will answer whatever you may ask . '
With that she showed him the way , and the prince went and did just as she had told him .
After dinner they lay down to rest .
All of a sudden Lucky Luck began to speak and said : ` Tell me , what sort of man are you , for since you came here you have not spoken a word ? ' '
I am not dumb , ' replied the young man , ` but I am that unhappy prince whose faithful servant has been turned to stone , and I want to know how to help him . '
` And you do well , for he deserves everything .
Go back , and when you get home your wife will just have had a little boy .
Take three drops of blood from the child 's little finger , rub them on your servant 's wrists with a blade of grass and he will return to life . ' '
I have another thing to ask , ' said the prince , when he had thanked him .
` In the forest near here is a fine stream but not a fish or other living creature in it .
Why is this ? '
` Because no one has ever been drowned in the stream .
But take care , in crossing , to get as near the other side as you can before you say so , or you may be the first victim yourself . '
` Another question , please , before I go .
On my way here I lodged one night in the house of three maidens .
All were well-mannered , hard-working , and pretty , and yet none has had a wooer .
Why was this ? '
` Because they always throw out their sweepings in the face of the sun . '
` And why is it that a miller , who has a large mill with all the best machinery and gets plenty of corn to grind is so poor that he can hardly live from day to day ? '
` Because the miller keeps everything for himself , and does not give to those who need it . '
The prince wrote down the answers to his questions , took a friendly leave of Lucky Luck , and set off for home .
When he reached the stream it asked if he brought it any good news .
` When I get across I will tell you , ' said he .
So the stream parted ; he walked through and on to the highest part of the bank .
He stopped and shouted out : ` Listen , oh stream !
Lucky Luck says you will never have any living creature in your waters until someone is drowned in you . '
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the stream swelled and overflowed till it reached the rock up which he had climbed , and dashed so far up it that the spray flew over him .
But he clung on tight , and after failing to reach him three times the stream returned to its proper course .
Then the prince climbed down , dried himself in the sun , and set out on his march home .
He spent the night once more at the mill and gave the miller his answer , and by-and-by he told the three sisters not to throw out all their sweepings in the face of the sun .
The prince had hardly arrived at home when some thieves tried to ford the stream with a fine horse they had stolen .
When they were half-way across , the stream rose so suddenly that it swept them all away .
From that time it became the best fishing stream in the country-side .
The miller , too , began to give alms and became a very good man , and in time grew so rich that he hardly knew how much he had .
And the three sisters , now that they no longer insulted the sun , had each a wooer within a week .
When the prince got home he found that his wife had just got a fine little boy .
He did not lose a moment in pricking the baby 's finger till the blood ran , and he brushed it on the wrists of the stone figure , which shuddered all over and split with a loud noise in seven parts and there was the faithful servant alive and well .
When the old king saw this he foamed with rage , stared wildly about , flung himself on the ground and died .
The servant stayed on with his royal master and served him faithfully all the rest of his life ; and , if neither of them is dead , he is serving him still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Hairy Man Somewhere or other , but I do n't know where , there lived a king who owned two remarkably fine fields of rape , but every night two of the rape heaps were burnt down in one of the fields .
The king was extremely angry at this , and sent out soldiers to catch whoever had set fire to the ricks ; but it was all of no use -- not a soul could they see .
Then he offered nine hundred crowns to anyone who caught the evil-doer , and at the same time ordered that whoever did not keep proper watch over the fields should be killed ; but though there were a great many people , none seemed able to protect the fields .
The king had already put ninety-nine people to death , when a little swineherd came to him who had two dogs ; one was called ` Psst , ' and the other ` Hush ' ; and the boy told the king that he would watch over the ricks .
When it grew dark he climbed up on the top of the fourth rick , from where he could see the whole field .
About eleven o'clock he thought he saw someone going to a rick and putting a light to it .
` Just you wait , ' thought he , and called out to his dogs : ` Hi !
Psst , Hush , catch him ! '
But Psst and Hush had not waited for orders , and in five minutes the man was caught .
Next morning he was brought bound before the king , who was so pleased with the boy that he gave him a thousand crowns at once .
The prisoner was all covered with hair , almost like an animal ; and altogether he was so curious to look at that the king locked him up in a strong room and sent out letters of invitation to all the other kings and princes asking them to come and see this wonder .
That was all very well ; but the king had a little boy of ten years old who went to look at the hairy man also , and the man begged so hard to be set free that the boy took pity on him .
He stole the key of the strong room from his mother and opened the door .
Then he took the key back , but the hairy man escaped and went off into the world .
Then the kings and princes began to arrive one after another , and all were most anxious to see the hairy man ; but he was gone !
The king nearly burst with rage and with the shame he felt .
He questioned his wife sharply , and told her that if she could not find and bring back the hairy man he would put her in a hut made of rushes and burn her there .
The queen declared she had had nothing to do with the matter ; if her son had happened to take the key it had not been with her knowledge .
So they fetched the little prince and asked him all sorts of questions , and at last he owned that he had let the hairy man out .
The king ordered his servants to take the boy into the forest and to kill him there , and to bring back part of his liver and lungs .
There was grief all over the palace when the king 's command was known , for he was a great favourite .
But there was no help for it , and they took the boy out into the forest .
But the man was sorry for him , and shot a dog and carried pieces of his lungs and liver to the king , who was satisfied , and did not trouble himself any more .
The prince wandered about in the forest and lived as best he could for five years .
One day he came upon a poor little cottage in which was an old man .
They began to talk , and the prince told his story and sad fate .
Then they recognised each other , for the old fellow was no other than the hairy man whom the prince had set free , and who had lived ever since in the forest .
The prince stayed here for two years ; then he wished to go further .
The old man begged him hard to stay , but he would not , so his hairy friend gave him a golden apple out of which came a horse with a golden mane , and a golden staff with which to guide the horse .
The old man also gave him a silver apple out of which came the most beautiful hussars and a silver staff ; and a copper apple from which he could draw as many foot soldiers as ever he wished , and a copper staff .
He made the prince swear solemnly to take the greatest care of these presents , and then he let him go .
The boy wandered on and on till he came to a large town .
Here he took service in the king 's palace , and as no one troubled themselves about him he lived quietly on .
One day news was brought to the king that he must go out to war .
He was horribly frightened for he had a very small army , but he had to go all the same .
When they had all left , the prince said to the housekeeper : ` Give me leave to go to the next village -- I owe a small bill there , and I want to go and pay it ' ; and as there was nothing to be done in the palace the housekeeper gave him leave .
When he got beyond the town he took out his golden apple , and when the horse sprang out he swung himself into the saddle .
Then he took the silver and the copper apples , and with all these fine soldiers he joined the king 's army .
The king saw them approach with fear in his heart , for he did not know if it might not be an enemy ; but the prince rode up , and bowed low before him . '
I bring your Majesty reinforcements , ' said he .
The king was delighted , and all dread of his enemy at once disappeared .
The princesses were there too , and they were very friendly with the prince and begged him to get into their carriage so as to talk to them .
But he declined , and remained on horseback , as he did not know at what moment the battle might begin ; and whilst they were all talking together the youngest princess , who was also the loveliest , took off her ring , and her sister tore her handkerchief in two pieces , and they gave these gifts to the prince .
Suddenly the enemy came in sight .
The king asked whether his army or the prince 's should lead the way ; but the prince set off first and with his hussars he fought so bravely that only two of the enemy were left alive , and these two were only spared to act as messengers .
The king was overjoyed and so were his daughters at this brilliant victory .
As they drove home they begged the prince to join them , but he would not come , and galloped off with his hussars .
When he got near the town he packed his soldiers and his fine horse all carefully into the apple again , and then strolled into the town .
On his return to the palace he was well scolded by the housekeeper for staying away so long .
Well , the whole matter might have ended there ; but it so happened that the younger princess had fallen in love with the prince , as he had with her .
And as he had no jewels with him , he gave her the copper apple and staff .
One day , as the princesses were talking with their father , the younger one asked him whether it might not have been their servant who had helped him so much .
The king was quite angry at the idea ; but , to satisfy her , he ordered the servant 's room to be searched .
And there , to everyone 's surprise , they found the golden ring and the half of the handkerchief .
When these were brought to the king he sent for the prince at once and asked if it had been he who had come to their rescue .
` Yes , your Majesty , it was I , ' answered the prince .
` But where did you get your army ? '
` If you wish to see it , I can show it you outside the city walls . '
And so he did ; but first he asked for the copper apple from the younger princess , and when all the soldiers were drawn up there were such numbers that there was barely room for them .
The king gave him his daughter and kingdom as a reward for his aid , and when he heard that the prince was himself a king 's son his joy knew no bounds .
The prince packed all his soldiers carefully up once more , and they went back into the town .
Not long after there was a grand wedding ; perhaps they may all be alive still , but I do n't know .
To Your Good Health !
Long , long ago there lived a king who was such a mighty monarch that whenever he sneezed every one in the whole country had to say ` To your good health ! '
Every one said it except the shepherd with the staring eyes , and he would not say it .
The king heard of this and was very angry , and sent for the shepherd to appear before him .
The shepherd came and stood before the throne , where the king sat looking very grand and powerful .
But however grand or powerful he might be the shepherd did not feel a bit afraid of him .
` Say at once , `` To my good health ! '' '
cried the king .
` To my good health ! '
replied the shepherd .
` To mine -- to mine , you rascal , you vagabond ! '
stormed the king .
` To mine , to mine , your Majesty , ' was the answer .
` But to mine -- to my own , ' roared the king , and beat on his breast in a rage .
` Well , yes ; to mine , of course , to my own , ' cried the shepherd , and gently tapped his breast .
The king was beside himself with fury and did not know what to do , when the Lord Chamberlain interfered : ` Say at once -- say this very moment : `` To your health , your Majesty '' ; for if you do n't say it you 'll lose your life , whispered he .
` No , I wo n't say it till I get the princess for my wife , ' was the shepherd 's answer .
Now the princess was sitting on a little throne beside the king , her father , and she looked as sweet and lovely as a little golden dove .
When she heard what the shepherd said she could not help laughing , for there is no denying the fact that this young shepherd with the staring eyes pleased her very much ; indeed he pleased her better than any king 's son she had yet seen .
But the king was not as pleasant as his daughter , and he gave orders to throw the shepherd into the white bear 's pit .
The guards led him away and thrust him into the pit with the white bear , who had had nothing to eat for two days and was very hungry .
The door of the pit was hardly closed when the bear rushed at the shepherd ; but when it saw his eyes it was so frightened that it was ready to eat itself .
It shrank away into a corner and gazed at him from there , and , in spite of being so famished , did not dare to touch him , but sucked its own paws from sheer hunger .
The shepherd felt that if he once removed his eyes off the beast he was a dead man , and in order to keep himself awake he made songs and sang them , and so the night went by .
Next morning the Lord Chamberlain came to see the shepherd 's bones , and was amazed to find him alive and well .
He led him to the king , who fell into a furious passion , and said : ` Well , you have learned what it is to be very near death , and now will you say `` To my good health '' ? '
But the shepherd answered : ' I am not afraid of ten deaths !
I will only say it if I may have the princess for my wife . '
` Then go to your death , ' cried the king ; and ordered him to be thrown into the den with the wild boars .
The wild boars had not been fed for a week , and when the shepherd was thrust into their don they rushed at him to tear him to pieces .
But the shepherd took a little flute out of the sleeve of his jacket and began to play a merry tune , on which the wild boars first of all shrank shyly away , and then got up on their hind legs and danced gaily .
The shepherd would have given anything to be able to laugh , they looked so funny ; but he dared not stop playing , for he knew well enough that the moment he stopped they would fall upon him and tear him to pieces .
His eyes were of no use to him here , for he could not have stared ten wild boars in the face at once ; so he kept on playing , and the wild boars danced very slowly , as if in a minuet , then by degrees he played faster and faster till they could hardly twist and turn quickly enough , and ended by all falling over each other in a heap , quite exhausted and out of breath .
Then the shepherd ventured to laugh at last ; and he laughed so long and so loud that when the Lord Chamberlain came early in the morning , expecting to find only his bones , the tears were still running down his cheeks from laughter .
As soon as the king was dressed the shepherd was again brought before him ; but he was more angry than ever to think the wild boars had not torn the man to bits , and he said : ` Well , you have learned what it feels to be near ten deaths , now say `` To my good health ! '' '
But the shepherd broke in with , ' I do not fear a hundred deaths , and I will only say it if I may have the princess for my wife . '
` Then go to a hundred deaths ! '
roared the king , and ordered the shepherd to be thrown down the deep vault of scythes .
The guards dragged him away to a dark dungeon , in the middle of which was a deep well with sharp scythes all round it .
At the bottom of the well was a little light by which one could see if anyone was thrown in whether he had fallen to the bottom .
When the shepherd was dragged to the dungeons he begged the guards to leave him alone a little while that he might look down into the pit of scythes ; perhaps he might after all make up his mind to say ` To your good health ' to the king .
So the guards left him alone and he stuck up his long stick near the well , hung his cloak round the stick and put his hat on the top .
He also hung his knapsack up inside the cloak so that it might seem to have some body within it .
When this was done he called out to the guards and said that he had considered the matter but after all he could not make up his mind to say what the king wished .
The guards came in , threw the hat and cloak , knapsack and stick all down the well together , watched to see how they put out the light at the bottom and came away , thinking that now there really was an end of the shepherd .
But he had hidden in a dark corner and was laughing to himself all the time .
Quite early next morning came the Lord Chamberlain , carrying a lamp and he nearly fell backwards with surprise when he saw the shepherd alive and well .
He brought him to the king , whose fury was greater than ever , but who cried : ` Well , now you have been near a hundred deaths ; will you say : `` To your good health '' ? '
But the shepherd only gave the same answer : ' I wo n't say it till the princess is my wife . '
` Perhaps after all you may do it for less , ' said the king , who saw that there was no chance of making away with the shepherd ; and he ordered the state coach to be got ready , then he made the shepherd get in with him and sit beside him , and ordered the coachman to drive to the silver wood .
When they reached it he said : ` Do you see this silver wood ?
Well , if you will say , `` To your good health , '' I will give it to you . '
The shepherd turned hot and cold by turns , but he still persisted : ' I will not say it till the princess is my wife . '
The king was much vexed ; he drove further on till they came to a splendid castle , all of gold , and then he said : ` Do you see this golden castle ?
Well , I will give you that too , the silver wood and the golden castle , if only you will say that one thing to me : `` To your good health . '' '
The shepherd gaped and wondered and was quite dazzled , but he still said : ` No ; I will not say it till I have the princess for my wife . '
This time the king was overwhelmed with grief , and gave orders to drive on to the diamond pond , and there he tried once more .
` Do you see this diamond pond ?
I will give you that too , the silver wood and the golden castle and the diamond pond .
You shall have them all -- all -- if you will but say : `` To your good health ! '' '
The shepherd had to shut his staring eyes tight not to be dazzled with the brilliant pond , but still he said : ` No , no ; I will not say it till I have the princess for my wife . '
Then the king saw that all his efforts were useless , and that he might as well give in , so he said : ` Well , well , it 's all the same to me -- I will give you my daughter to wife ; but , then , you really and truly must say to me : `` To your good health . '' '
` Of course I 'll say it ; why should I not say it ?
It stands to reason that I shall say it then . '
At this the king was more delighted than anyone could have believed .
He made it known all through the country that there were to be great rejoicings , as the princess was going to be married .
And everyone rejoiced to think that the princess , who had refused so many royal suitors , should have ended by falling in love with the staring-eyed shepherd .
There was such a wedding as had never been seen .
Everyone ate and drank and danced .
Even the sick were feasted , and quite tiny new-born children had presents given them .
But the greatest merry-making was in the king 's palace ; there the best bands played and the best food was cooked ; a crowd of people sat down to table , and all was fun and merry-making .
And when the groomsman , according to custom , brought in the great boar 's head on a big dish and placed it before the king so that he might carve it and give everyone a share , the savoury smell was so strong that the king began to sneeze with all his might .
` To your very good health , ' cried the shepherd before anyone else , and the king was so delighted that he did not regret having given him his daughter .
In time , when the old king died , the shepherd succeeded him .
He made a very good king and never expected his people to wish him well against their wills ; but , all the same , everyone did wish him well , for they all loved him .
-LSB- From Russische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Story of the Seven Simons Far , far away , beyond all sorts of countries , seas and rivers , there stood a splendid city where lived King Archidej , who was as good as he was rich and handsome .
His great army was made up of men ready to obey his slightest wish ; he owned forty times forty cities , and in each city he had ten palaces with silver doors , golden roofs , and crystal windows .
His council consisted of the twelve wisest men in the country , whose long beards flowed down over their breasts , each of whom was as learned as a whole college .
This council always told the king the exact truth .
Now the king had everything to make him happy , but he did not enjoy anything because he could not find a bride to his mind .
One day , as he sat in his palace looking out to sea , a great ship sailed into the harbour and several merchants came on shore .
Said the king to himself : ` These people have travelled far and beheld many lands .
I will ask them if they have seen any princess who is as clever and as handsome as I am . '
So he ordered the merchants to be brought before him , and when they came he said : ` You have travelled much and visited many wonders .
I wish to ask you a question , and I beg you to answer truthfully .
` Have you anywhere seen or heard of the daughter of an emperor , king , or a prince , who is as clever and as handsome as I am , and who would be worthy to be my wife and the queen of my country ? '
The merchants considered for some time .
At last the eldest of them said : ' I have heard that across many seas , in the Island of Busan , there is a mighty king , whose daughter , the Princess Helena , is so lovely that she can certainly not be plainer than your Majesty , and so clever that the wisest greybeard can not guess her riddles . '
` Is the island far off , and which is the way to it ? '
` It is not near , ' was the answer .
` The journey would take ten years , and we do not know the way .
And even if we did , what use would that be ?
The princess is no bride for you . '
` How dare you say so ? '
cried the king angrily .
` Your Majesty must pardon us ; but just think for a moment .
Should you send an envoy to the island he will take ten years to get there and ten more to return -- twenty years in all .
Will not the princess have grown old in that time and have lost all her beauty ? '
The king reflected gravely .
Then he thanked the merchants , gave them leave to trade in his country without paying any duties , and dismissed them .
After they were gone the king remained deep in thought .
He felt puzzled and anxious ; so he decided to ride into the country to distract his mind , and sent for his huntsmen and falconers .
The huntsmen blew their horns , the falconers took their hawks on their wrists , and off they all set out across country till they came to a green hedge .
On the other side of the hedge stretched a great field of maize as far as the eye could reach , and the yellow ears swayed to and fro in the gentle breeze like a rippling sea of gold .
The king drew rein and admired the field .
` Upon my word , ' said he , ` whoever dug and planted it must be good workmen .
If all the fields in my kingdom were as well cared for as this , there would be more bread than my people could eat . '
And he wished to know to whom the field belonged .
Off rushed all his followers at once to do his bidding , and found a nice , tidy farmhouse , in front of which sat seven peasants , lunching on rye bread and drinking water .
They wore red shirts bound with gold braid , and were so much alike that one could hardly tell one from another .
The messengers asked : ` Who owns this field of golden maize ? '
And the seven brothers answered : ` The field is ours . '
` And who are you ? '
` We are King Archidej 's labourers . '
These answers were repeated to the king , who ordered the brothers to be brought before him at once .
On being asked who they were , the eldest said , bowing low : ` We , King Archidej , are your labourers , children of one father and mother , and we all have the same name , for each of us is called Simon .
Our father taught us to be true to our king , and to till the ground , and to be kind to our neighbours .
He also taught each of us a different trade which he thought might be useful to us , and he bade us not neglect our mother earth , which would be sure amply to repay our labour . '
The king was pleased with the honest peasant , and said : ` You have done well , good people , in planting your field , and now you have a golden harvest .
But I should like each of you to tell me what special trades your father taught you . '
` My trade , O king ! '
said the first Simon , ` is not an easy one .
If you will give me some workmen and materials I will build you a great white pillar that shall reach far above the clouds . '
` Very good , ' replied the king .
` And you , Simon the second , what is your trade ? '
` Mine , your Majesty , needs no great cleverness .
When my brother has built the pillar I can mount it , and from the top , far above the clouds , I can see what is happening : in every country under the sun . '
` Good , ' said the king ; ` and Simon the third ? '
` My work is very simple , sire .
You have many ships built by learned men , with all sorts of new and clever improvements .
If you wish it I will build you quite a simple boat -- one , two , three , and it 's done !
But my plain little home-made ship is not grand enough for a king .
Where other ships take a year , mine makes the voyage in a day , and where they would require ten years mine will do the distance in a week . '
` Good , ' said the king again ; ` and what has Simon the fourth learnt ? '
` My trade , O king , is really of no importance .
Should my brother build you a ship , then let me embark in it .
If we should be pursued by an enemy I can seize our boat by the prow and sink it to the bottom of the sea .
When the enemy has sailed off , I can draw it up to the top again . '
` That is very clever of you , ' answered the king ; ` and what does Simon the fifth do ? '
` My work , your Majesty , is mere smith 's work .
Order me to build a smithy and I will make you a cross-bow , but from which neither the eagle in the sky nor the wild beast in the forest is safe .
The bolt hits whatever the eye sees . '
` That sounds very useful , ' said the king .
` And now , Simon the sixth , tell me your trade . '
` Sire , it is so simple I am almost ashamed to mention it .
If my brother hits any creature I catch it quicker than any dog can .
If it falls into the water I pick it up out of the greatest depths , and if it is in a dark forest I can find it even at midnight . '
The king was much pleased with the trades and talk of the six brothers , and said : ` Thank you , good people ; your father did well to teach you all these things .
Now follow me to the town , as I want to see what you can do .
I need such people as you about me ; but when harvest time comes I will send you home with royal presents . '
The brothers bowed and said : ` As the king wills . '
Suddenly the king remembered that he had not questioned the seventh Simon , so he turned to him and said : ` Why are you silent ?
What is your handicraft ? '
And the seventh Simon answered : ' I have no handicraft , O king ; I have learnt nothing .
I could not manage it .
And if I do know how to do anything it is not what might properly be called a real trade -- it is rather a sort of performance ; but it is one which no one -- not the king himself -- must watch me doing , and I doubt whether this performance of mine would please your Majesty . '
` Come , come , ' cried the king ; ' I will have no excuses , what is this trade ? '
` First , sire , give me your royal word that you will not kill me when I have told you .
Then you shall hear . '
` So be it , then ; I give you my royal word . '
Then the seventh Simon stepped back a little , cleared his throat , and said : ` My trade , King Archidej , is of such a kind that the man who follows it in your kingdom generally loses his life and has no hopes of pardon .
There is only one thing I can do really well , and that is -- to steal , and to hide the smallest scrap of anything I have stolen .
Not the deepest vault , even if its lock were enchanted , could prevent my stealing anything out of it that I wished to have . '
When the king heard this he fell into a passion . '
I will not pardon you , you rascal , ' he cried ; ' I will shut you up in my deepest dungeon on bread and water till you have forgotten such a trade .
Indeed , it would be better to put you to death at once , and I 've a good mind to do so . '
` Do n't kill me , O king !
I am really not as bad as you think .
Why , had I chosen , I could have robbed the royal treasury , have bribed your judges to let me off , and built a white marble palace with what was left .
But though I know how to steal I do n't do it .
You yourself asked me my trade .
If you kill me you will break your royal word . '
` Very well , ' said the king , ' I will not kill you .
I pardon you .
But from this hour you shall be shut up in a dark dungeon .
Here , guards !
away with him to the prison .
But you six Simons follow me and be assured of my royal favour . '
So the six Simons followed the king .
The seventh Simon was seized by the guards , who put him in chains and threw him in prison with only bread and water for food .
Next day the king gave the first Simon carpenters , masons , smiths and labourers , with great stores of iron , mortar , and the like , and Simon began to build .
And he built his great white pillar far , far up into the clouds , as high as the nearest stars ; but the other stars were higher still .
Then the second Simon climbed up the pillar and saw and heard all that was going on through the whole world .
When he came down he had all sorts of wonderful things to tell .
How one king was marching in battle against another , and which was likely to be the victor .
How , in another place , great rejoicings were going on , while in a third people were dying of famine .
In fact there was not the smallest event going on over the earth that was hidden from him .
Next the third Simon began .
He stretched out his arms , once , twice , thrice , and the wonder-ship was ready .
At a sign from the king it was launched , and floated proudly and safely like a bird on the waves .
Instead of ropes it had wires for rigging , and musicians played on them with fiddle bows and made lovely music .
As the ship swam about , the fourth Simon seized the prow with his strong hand , and in a moment it was gone -- sunk to the bottom of the sea .
An hour passed , and then the ship floated again , drawn up by Simon 's left hand , while in his right he brought a gigantic fish from the depth of the ocean for the royal table .
Whilst this was going on the fifth Simon had built his forge and hammered out his iron , and when the king returned from the harbour the magic cross-bow was made .
His Majesty went out into an open field at once , looked up into the sky and saw , far , far away , an eagle flying up towards the sun and looking like a little speck .
` Now , ' said the king , ` if you can shoot that bird I will reward you . '
Simon only smiled ; he lifted his cross-bow , took aim , fired , and the eagle fell .
As it was falling the sixth Simon ran with a dish , caught the bird before it fell to earth and brought it to the king .
` Many thanks , my brave lads , ' said the king ; ' I see that each of you is indeed a master of his trade .
You shall be richly rewarded .
But now rest and have your dinner . '
The six Simons bowed and went to dinner .
But they had hardly begun before a messenger came to say that the king wanted to see them .
They obeyed at once and found him surrounded by all his court and men of state .
` Listen , my good fellows , ' cried the king , as soon as he saw them .
` Hear what my wise counsellors have thought of .
As you , Simon the second , can see the whole world from the top of the great pillar , I want you to climb up and to see and hear .
For I am told that , far away , across many seas , is the great kingdom of the Island of Busan , and that the daughter of the king is the beautiful Princess Helena . '
Off ran the second Simon and clambered quickly up the pillar .
He gazed around , listened on all sides , and then slid down to report to the king .
` Sire , I have obeyed your orders .
Far away I saw the Island of Busan .
The king is a mighty monarch , but full of pride , harsh and cruel .
He sits on his throne and declares that no prince or king on earth is good enough for his lovely daughter , that he will give her to none , and that if any king asks for her hand he will declare war against him and destroy his kingdom . '
` Has the king of Busan a great army ? '
asked King Archidej ; ` is his country far off ? '
` As far as I could judge , ' replied Simon , ` it would take you nearly ten years in fair weather to sail there .
But if the weather were stormy we might say twelve .
I saw the army being reviewed .
It is not so very large -- a hundred thousand men at arms and a hundred thousand knights .
Besides these , he has a strong bodyguard and a good many cross-bowmen .
Altogether you may say another hundred thousand , and there is a picked body of heroes who reserve themselves for great occasions requiring particular courage . '
The king sat for some time lost in thought .
At last he said to the nobles and courtiers standing round : ' I am determined to marry the Princess Helena , but how shall I do it ? '
The nobles , courtiers and counsellors said nothing , but tried to hide behind each other .
Then the third Simon said : ` Pardon me , your Majesty , if I offer my advice .
You wish to go to the Island of Busan ?
What can be easier ?
In my ship you will get there in a week instead of in ten years .
But ask your council to advise you what to do when you arrive -- in one word , whether you will win the princess peacefully or by war ? '
But the wise men were as silent as ever .
The king frowned , and was about to say something sharp , when the Court Fool pushed his way to the front and said : ` Dear me , what are all you clever people so puzzled about ?
The matter is quite clear .
As it seems it will not take long to reach the island why not send the seventh Simon ?
He will steal the fair maiden fast enough , and then the king , her father , may consider how he is going to bring his army over here -- it will take him ten years to do it !
-- no less !
What do you think of my plan ? '
` What do I think ?
Why , that your idea is capital , and you shall be rewarded for it .
Come , guards , hurry as fast as you can and bring the seventh Simon before me . '
Not many minutes later , Simon the seventh stood before the king , who explained to him what he wished done , and also that to steal for the benefit of his king and country was by no means a wrong thing , though it was very wrong to steal for his own advantage .
The youngest Simon , who looked very pale and hungry , only nodded his head .
` Come , ' said the king , ` tell me truly .
Do you think you could steal the Princess Helena ? '
` Why should I not steal her , sire ?
The thing is easy enough .
Let my brother 's ship be laden with rich stuffs , brocades , Persian carpets , pearls and jewels .
Send me in the ship .
Give me my four middle brothers as companions , and keep the two others as hostages . '
When the king heard these words his heart became filled with longing , and he ordered all to be done as Simon wished .
Every one ran about to do his bidding ; and in next to no time the wonder-ship was laden and ready to start .
The five Simons took leave of the king , went on board , and had no sooner set sail than they were almost out of sight .
The ship cut through the waters like a falcon through the air , and just a week after starting sighted the Island of Busan .
The coast appeared to be strongly guarded , and from afar the watchman on a high tower called out : ` Halt and anchor !
Who are you ?
Where do you come from , and what do you want ? '
The seventh Simon answered from the ship : ` We are peaceful people .
We come from the country of the great and good King Archidej , and we bring foreign wares -- rich brocades , carpets , and costly jewels , which we wish to show to your king and the princess .
We desire to trade -- to sell , to buy , and to exchange . '
The brothers launched a small boat , took some of their valuable goods with them , rowed to shore and went up to the palace .
The princess sat in a rose-red room , and when she saw the brothers coming near she called her nurse and other women , and told them to inquire who and what these people were , and what they wanted .
The seventh Simon answered the nurse : ` We come from the country of the wise and good King Archidej , ' said he , ` and we have brought all sorts of goods for sale .
We trust the king of this country may condescend to welcome us , and to let his servants take charge of our wares .
If he considers them worthy to adorn his followers we shall be content . '
This speech was repeated to the princess , who ordered the brothers to be brought to the red-room at once .
They bowed respectfully to her and displayed some splendid velvets and brocades , and opened cases of pearls and precious stones .
Such beautiful things had never been seen in the island , and the nurse and waiting women stood bewildered by all the magnificence .
They whispered together that they had never beheld anything like it .
The princess too saw and wondered , and her eyes could not weary of looking at the lovely things , or her fingers of stroking the rich soft stuffs , and of holding up the sparkling jewels to the light .
` Fairest of princesses , ' said Simon .
` Be pleased to order your waiting-maids to accept the silks and velvets , and let your women trim their head-dresses with the jewels ; these are no special treasures .
But permit me to say that they are as nothing to the many coloured tapestries , the gorgeous stones and ropes of pearls in our ship .
We did not like to bring more with us , not knowing what your royal taste might be ; but if it seems good to you to honour our ship with a visit , you might condescend to choose such things as were pleasing in your eyes . '
This polite speech pleased the princess very much .
She went to the king and said : ` Dear father , some merchants have arrived with the most splendid wares .
Pray allow me to go to their ship and choose out what I like . '
The king thought and thought , frowned hard and rubbed his ear .
At last he gave consent , and ordered out his royal yacht , with 100 cross-bows , 100 knights , and 1,000 soldiers , to escort the Princess Helena .
Off sailed the yacht with the princess and her escort .
The brothers Simon came on board to conduct the princess to their ship , and , led by the brothers and followed by her nurse and other women , she crossed the crystal plank from one vessel to another .
The seventh Simon spread out his goods , and had so many curious and interesting tales to tell about them , that the princess forgot everything else in looking and listening , so that she did not know that the fourth Simon had seized the prow of the ship , and that all of a sudden it had vanished from sight , and was racing along in the depths of the sea .
The crew of the royal yacht shouted aloud , the knights stood still with terror , the soldiers were struck dumb and hung their heads .
There was nothing to be done but to sail back and tell the king of his loss .
How he wept and stormed !
` Oh , light of my eyes , ' he sobbed ; ' I am indeed punished for my pride .
I thought no one good enough to be your husband , and now you are lost in the depths of the sea , and have left me alone !
As for all of you who saw this thing -- away with you !
Let them be put in irons and lock them up in prison , whilst I think how I can best put them to death ! '
Whilst the King of Busan was raging and lamenting in this fashion , Simon 's ship was swimming like any fish under the sea , and when the island was well out of sight he brought it up to the surface again .
At that moment the princess recollected herself .
` Nurse , ' said she , ` we have been gazing at these wonders only too long .
I hope my father wo n't be vexed at our delay . '
She tore herself away and stepped on deck .
Neither the yacht nor the island was in sight !
Helena wrung her hands and beat her breast .
Then she changed herself into a white swan and flew off .
But the fifth Simon seized his bow and shot the swan , and the sixth Simon did not let it fall into the water but caught it in the ship , and the swan turned into a silver fish , but Simon lost no time and caught the fish , when , quick as thought , the fish turned into a black mouse and ran about the ship .
It darted towards a hole , but before it could reach it Simon sprang upon it more swiftly than any cat , and then the little mouse turned once more into the beautiful Princess Helena .
Early one morning King Archidej sat thoughtfully at his window gazing out to sea .
His heart was sad and he would neither eat nor drink .
His thoughts were full of the Princess Helena , who was as lovely as a dream .
Is that a white gull he sees flying towards the shore , or is it a sail ?
No , it is no gull , it is the wonder-ship flying along with billowing sails .
Its flags wave , the fiddlers play on the wire rigging , the anchor is thrown out and the crystal plank laid from the ship to the pier .
The lovely Helena steps across the plank .
She shines like the sun , and the stars of heaven seem to sparkle in her eyes .
Up sprang King Archidej in haste : ` Hurry , hurry , ' he cried .
` Let us hasten to meet her !
Let the bugles sound and the joy bells be rung ! '
And the whole Court swarmed with courtiers and servants .
Golden carpets were laid down and the great gates thrown open to welcome the princess .
King Archidej went out himself , took her by the hand and led her into the royal apartments .
` Madam , ' said he , ` the fame of your beauty had reached me , but I had not dared to expect such loveliness .
Still I will not keep you here against your will .
If you wish it , the wonder-ship shall take you back to your father and your own country ; but if you will consent to stay here , then reign over me and my country as our queen . '
What more is there to tell ?
It is not hard to guess that the princess listened to the king 's wooing , and their betrothal took place with great pomp and rejoicings .
The brothers Simon were sent again to the Island of Busan with a letter to the king from his daughter to invite him to their wedding .
And the wonder-ship arrived at the Island of Busan just as all the knights and soldiers who had escorted the princess were being led out to execution .
Then the seventh Simon cried out from the ship : ` Stop !
stop !
I bring a letter from the Princess Helena ! '
The King of Busan read the letter over and over again , and ordered the knights and soldiers to be set free .
He entertained King Archidej 's ambassadors hospitably , and sent his blessing to his daughter , but he could not be brought to attend the wedding .
When the wonder-ship got home King Archidej and Princess Helena were enchanted with the news it brought .
The king sent for the seven Simons . '
A thousand thanks to you , my brave fellows , ' he cried .
` Take what gold , silver , and precious stones you will out of my treasury .
Tell me if there is anything else you wish for and I will give it you , my good friends .
Do you wish to be made nobles , or to govern towns ?
Only speak . '
Then the eldest Simon bowed and said : ` We are plain folk , your Majesty , and understand simple things best .
What figures should we cut as nobles or governors ?
Nor do we desire gold .
We have our fields which give us food , and as much money as we need .
If you wish to reward us then grant that our land may be free of taxes , and of your goodness pardon the seventh Simon .
He is not the first who has been a thief by trade and he will certainly not be the last . '
` So be it , ' said the king ; ` your land shall be free of all taxes , and Simon the seventh is pardoned . '
Then the king gave each brother a goblet of wine and invited them to the wedding feast .
And what a feast that was !
-LSB- From Ungarischen Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Language of Beasts Once upon a time a man had a shepherd who served him many years faithfully and honestly .
One day , whilst herding his flock , this shepherd heard a hissing sound , coming out of the forest near by , which he could not account for .
So he went into the wood in the direction of the noise to try to discover the cause .
When he approached the place he found that the dry grass and leaves were on fire , and on a tree , surrounded by flames , a snake was coiled , hissing with terror .
The shepherd stood wondering how the poor snake could escape , for the wind was blowing the flames that way , and soon that tree would be burning like the rest .
Suddenly the snake cried : ' O shepherd !
for the love of heaven save me from this fire ! '
Then the shepherd stretched his staff out over the flames and the snake wound itself round the staff and up to his hand , and from his hand it crept up his arm , and twined itself about his neck .
The shepherd trembled with fright , expecting every instant to be stung to death , and said : ` What an unlucky man I am !
Did I rescue you only to be destroyed myself ? '
But the snake answered : ` Have no fear ; only carry me home to my father who is the King of the Snakes . '
The shepherd , however , was much too frightened to listen , and said that he could not go away and leave his flock alone ; but the snake said : ` You need not be afraid to leave your flock , no evil shall befall them ; but make all the haste you can . '
So he set off through the wood carrying the snake , and after a time he came to a great gateway , made entirely of snakes intertwined one with another .
The shepherd stood still with surprise , but the snake round his neck whistled , and immediately all the arch unwound itself .
` When we are come to my father 's house , ' said his own snake to him , ` he will reward you with anything you like to ask -- silver , gold , jewels , or whatever on this earth is most precious ; but take none of all these things , ask rather to understand the language of beasts .
He will refuse it to you a long time , but in the end he will grant it to you . '
Soon after that they arrived at the house of the King of the Snakes , who burst into tears of joy at the sight of his daughter , as he had given her up for dead .
` Where have you been all this time ? '
he asked , directly he could speak , and she told him that she had been caught in a forest fire , and had been rescued from the flames by the shepherd .
The King of the Snakes , then turning to the shepherd , said to him : ` What reward will you choose for saving my child ? '
` Make me to know the language of beasts , ' answered the shepherd , ` that is all I desire . '
The king replied : ` Such knowledge would be of no benefit to you , for if I granted it to you and you told any one of it , you would immediately die ; ask me rather for whatever else you would most like to possess , and it shall be yours . '
But the shepherd answered him : ` Sir , if you wish to reward me for saving your daughter , grant me , I pray you , to know the language of beasts .
I desire nothing else ' ; and he turned as if to depart .
Then the king called him back , saying : ` If nothing else will satisfy you , open your mouth . '
The man obeyed , and the king spat into it , and said : ` Now spit into my mouth . '
The shepherd did as he was told , then the King of the Snakes spat again into the shepherd 's mouth .
When they had spat into each other 's mouths three times , the king said : ` Now you know the language of beasts , go in peace ; but , if you value your life , beware lest you tell any one of it , else you will immediately die . '
So the shepherd set out for home , and on his way through the wood he heard and understood all that was said by the birds , and by every living creature .
When he got back to his sheep he found the flock grazing peacefully , and as he was very tired he laid himself down by them to rest a little .
Hardly had he done so when two ravens flew down and perched on a tree near by , and began to talk to each other in their own language : ` If that shepherd only knew that there is a vault full of gold and silver beneath where that lamb is lying , what would he not do ? '
When the shepherd heard these words he went straight to his master and told him , and the master at once took a waggon , and broke open the door of the vault , and they carried off the treasure .
But instead of keeping it for himself , the master , who was an honourable man , gave it all up to the shepherd , saying : ` Take it , it is yours .
The gods have given it to you . '
So the shepherd took the treasure and built himself a house .
He married a wife , and they lived in great peace and happiness , and he was acknowledged to be the richest man , not only of his native village , but of all the country-side .
He had flocks of sheep , and cattle , and horses without end , as well as beautiful clothes and jewels .
One day , just before Christmas , he said to his wife : ` Prepare everything for a great feast , to-morrow we will take things with us to the farm that the shepherds there may make merry . '
The wife obeyed , and all was prepared as he desired .
Next day they both went to the farm , and in the evening the master said to the shepherds : ` Now come , all of you , eat , drink , and make merry .
I will watch the flocks myself to-night in your stead . '
Then he went out to spend the night with the flocks .
When midnight struck the wolves howled and the dogs barked , and the wolves spoke in their own tongue , saying : ` Shall we come in and work havoc , and you too shall eat flesh ? '
And the dogs answered in their tongue : ` Come in , and for once we shall have enough to eat . '
Now amongst the dogs there was one so old that he had only two teeth left in his head , and he spoke to the wolves , saying : ` So long as I have my two teeth still in my head , I will let no harm be done to my master . '
All this the master heard and understood , and as soon as morning dawned he ordered all the dogs to be killed excepting the old dog .
The farm servants wondered at this order , and exclaimed : ` But surely , sir , that would be a pity ? '
The master answered : ` Do as I bid you ' ; and made ready to return home with his wife , and they mounted their horses , her steed being a mare .
As they went on their way , it happened that the husband rode on ahead , while the wife was a little way behind .
The husband 's horse , seeing this , neighed , and said to the mare : ` Come along , make haste ; why are you so slow ? '
And the mare answered : ` It is very easy for you , you carry only your master , who is a thin man , but I carry my mistress , who is so fat that she weights as much as three . '
When the husband heard that he looked back and laughed , which the wife perceiving , she urged on the mare till she caught up with her husband , and asked him why he laughed .
` For nothing at all , ' he answered ; ` just because it came into my head . '
She would not be satisfied with this answer , and urged him more and more to tell her why he had laughed .
But he controlled himself and said : ` Let me be , wife ; what ails you ?
I do not know myself why I laughed . '
But the more he put her off , the more she tormented him to tell her the cause of his laughter .
At length he said to her : ` Know , then , that if I tell it you I shall immediately and surely die . '
But even this did not quiet her ; she only besought him the more to tell her .
Meanwhile they had reached home , and before getting down from his horse the man called for a coffin to be brought ; and when it was there he placed it in front of the house , and said to his wife : ` See , I will lay myself down in this coffin , and will then tell you why I laughed , for as soon as I have told you I shall surely die . '
So he lay down in the coffin , and while he took a last look around him , his old dog came out from the farm and sat down by him , and whined .
When the master saw this , he called to his wife : ` Bring a piece of bread to give to the dog . '
The wife brought some bread and threw it to the dog , but he would not look at it .
Then the farm cock came and pecked at the bread ; but the dog said to it : ` Wretched glutton , you can eat like that when you see that your master is dying ? '
The cock answered : ` Let him die , if he is so stupid .
I have a hundred wives , which I call together when I find a grain of corn , and as soon as they are there I swallow it myself ; should one of them dare to be angry , I would give her a lesson with my beak .
He has only one wife , and he can not keep her in order . '
As soon as the man understood this , he got up out of the coffin , seized a stick , and called his wife into the room , saying : ` Come , and I will tell you what you so much want to know ' ; and then he began to beat her with the stick , saying with each blow : ` It is that , wife , it is that ! '
And in this way he taught her never again to ask why he had laughed .
The Boy Who Could Keep A Secret Once upon a time there lived a poor widow who had one little boy .
At first sight you would not have thought that he was different from a thousand other little boys ; but then you noticed that by his side hung the scabbard of a sword , and as the boy grew bigger the scabbard grew bigger too .
The sword which belonged to the scabbard was found by the little boy sticking out of the ground in the garden , and every day he pulled it up to see if it would go into the scabbard .
But though it was plainly becoming longer and longer , it was some time before the two would fit .
However , there came a day at last when it slipped in quite easily .
The child was so delighted that he could hardly believe his eyes , so he tried it seven times , and each time it slipped in more easily than before .
But pleased though the boy was , he determined not to tell anyone about it , particularly not his mother , who never could keep anything from her neighbours .
Still , in spite of his resolutions , he could not hide altogether that something had happened , and when he went in to breakfast his mother asked him what was the matter .
` Oh , mother , I had such a nice dream last night , ' said he ; ` but I ca n't tell it to anybody . '
` You can tell it to me , ' she answered .
` It must have been a nice dream , or you would n't look so happy . '
` No , mother ; I ca n't tell it to anybody , ' returned the boy , 'till it comes true . ' '
I want to know what it was , and know it I will , ' cried she , ` and I will beat you till you tell me . '
But it was no use , neither words nor blows would get the secret out of the boy ; and when her arm was quite tired and she had to leave off , the child , sore and aching , ran into the garden and knelt weeping beside his little sword .
It was working round and round in its hole all by itself , and if anyone except the boy had tried to catch hold of it , he would have been badly cut .
But the moment he stretched out his hand it stopped and slid quietly into the scabbard .
For a long time the child sat sobbing , and the noise was heard by the king as he was driving by .
` Go and see who it is that is crying so , ' said he to one of his servants , and the man went .
In a few minutes he returned saying : ` Your Majesty , it is a little boy who is kneeling there sobbing because his mother has beaten him . '
` Bring him to me at once , ' commanded the monarch , ` and tell him that it is the king who sends for him , and that he has never cried in all his life and can not bear anyone else to do so . '
On receiving this message the boy dried his tears and went with the servant to the royal carriage .
` Will you be my son ? '
asked the king .
` Yes , if my mother will let me , ' answered the boy .
And the king bade the servant go back to the mother and say that if she would give her boy to him , he should live in the palace and marry his prettiest daughter as soon as he was a man .
The widow 's anger now turned into joy , and she came running to the splendid coach and kissed the king 's hand . '
I hope you will be more obedient to his Majesty than you were to me , ' she said ; and the boy shrank away half-frightened .
But when she had gone back to her cottage , he asked the king if he might fetch something that he had left in the garden , and when he was given permission , he pulled up his little sword , which he slid into the scabbard .
Then he climbed into the coach and was driven away .
After they had gone some distance the king said : ` Why were you crying so bitterly in the garden just now ? '
` Because my mother had been beating me , ' replied the boy .
` And what did she do that for ? '
asked the king again .
` Because I would not tell her my dream . '
` And why would n't you tell it to her ? '
` Because I will never tell it to anyone till it comes true , ' answered the boy .
` And wo n't you tell it to me either ? '
asked the king in surprise .
` No , not even to you , your Majesty , ' replied he .
` Oh , I am sure you will when we get home , ' said the king smiling , and he talked to him about other things till they came to the palace . '
I have brought you such a nice present , ' he said to his daughters , and as the boy was very pretty they were delighted to have him and gave him all their best toys .
` You must not spoil him , ' observed the king one day , when he had been watching them playing together .
He has a secret which he wo n't tell to anyone . '
` He will tell me , ' answered the eldest princess ; but the boy only shook his head .
` He will tell me , ' said the second girl .
` Not I , ' replied the boy .
` He will tell me , ' cried the youngest , who was the prettiest too . '
I will tell nobody till it comes true , ' said the boy , as he had said before ; ` and I will beat anybody who asks me . '
The king was very sorry when he heard this , for he loved the boy dearly ; but he thought it would never do to keep anyone near him who would not do as he was bid .
So he commanded his servants to take him away and not to let him enter the palace again until he had come to his right senses .
The sword clanked loudly as the boy was led away , but the child said nothing , though he was very unhappy at being treated so badly when he had done nothing .
However , the servants were very kind to him , and their children brought him fruit and all sorts of nice things , and he soon grew merry again , and lived amongst them for many years till his seventeenth birthday .
Meanwhile the two eldest princesses had become women , and had married two powerful kings who ruled over great countries across the sea .
The youngest one was old enough to be married too , but she was very particular , and turned up her nose at all the young princes who had sought her hand .
One day she was sitting in the palace feeling rather dull and lonely , and suddenly she began to wonder what the servants were doing , and whether it was not more amusing down in their quarters .
The king was at his council and the queen was ill in bed , so there was no one to stop the princess , and she hastily ran across the gardens to the houses where the servants lived .
Outside she noticed a youth who was handsomer than any prince she had ever seen , and in a moment she knew him to be the little boy she had once played with .
` Tell me your secret and I will marry you , ' she said to him ; but the boy only gave her the beating he had promised her long ago , when she asked him the same question .
The girl was very angry , besides being hurt , and ran home to complain to her father .
` If he had a thousand souls , I would kill them all , ' swore the king .
That very day a gallows was built outside the town , and all the people crowded round to see the execution of the young man who had dared to beat the king 's daughter .
The prisoner , with his hands tied behind his back , was brought out by the hangman , and amidst dead silence his sentence was being read by the judge when suddenly the sword clanked against his side .
Instantly a great noise was heard and a golden coach rumbled over the stones , with a white flag waving out of the window .
It stopped underneath the gallows , and from it stepped the king of the Magyars , who begged that the life of the boy might be spared .
` Sir , he has beaten my daughter , who only asked him to tell her his secret .
I can not pardon that , ' answered the princess 's father .
` Give him to me , I 'm sure he will tell me the secret ; or , if not , I have a daughter who is like the Morning Star , and he is sure to tell it to her . '
The sword clanked for the third time , and the king said angrily : ` Well , if you want him so much you can have him ; only never let me see his face again . '
And he made a sign to the hangman .
The bandage was removed from the young man 's eyes , and the cords from his wrists , and he took his seat in the golden coach beside the king of the Magyars .
Then the coachman whipped up his horses , and they set out for Buda .
The king talked very pleasantly for a few miles , and when he thought that his new companion was quite at ease with him , he asked him what was the secret which had brought him into such trouble .
` That I can not tell you , ' answered the youth , ` until it comes true . '
` You will tell my daughter , ' said the king , smiling . '
I will tell nobody , ' replied the youth , and as he spoke the sword clanked loudly .
The king said no more , but trusted to his daughter 's beauty to get the secret from him .
The journey to Buda was long , and it was several days before they arrived there .
The beautiful princess happened to be picking roses in the garden , when her father 's coach drove up .
` Oh , what a handsome youth !
Have you brought him from fairyland ? '
cried she , when they all stood upon the marble steps in front of the castle . '
I have brought him from the gallows , ' answered the king ; rather vexed at his daughter 's words , as never before had she consented to speak to any man . '
I do n't care where you brought him from , ' said the spoilt girl . '
I will marry him and nobody else , and we will live together till we die . '
` You will tell another tale , ' replied the king , ` when you ask him his secret .
After all he is no better than a servant . '
` That is nothing to me , ' said the princess , ` for I love him .
He will tell his secret to me , and will find a place in the middle of my heart . '
But the king shook his head , and gave orders that the lad was to be lodged in the summer-house .
One day , about a week later , the princess put on her finest dress , and went to pay him a visit .
She looked so beautiful that , at the sight of her , the book dropped from his hand , and he stood up speechless .
` Tell me , ' she said , coaxingly , ` what is this wonderful secret ?
Just whisper it in my ear , and I will give you a kiss . '
` My angel , ' he answered , ` be wise , and ask no questions , if you wish to get safely back to your father 's palace ; I have kept my secret all these years , and do not mean to tell it now . '
However , the girl would not listen , and went on pressing him , till at last he slapped her face so hard that her nose bled .
She shrieked with pain and rage , and ran screaming back to the palace , where her father was waiting to hear if she had succeeded . '
I will starve you to death , you son of a dragon , ' cried he , when he saw her dress streaming with blood ; and he ordered all the masons and bricklayers in the town to come before him .
` Build me a tower as fast as you can , ' he said , ` and see that there is room for a stool and a small table , and for nothing else .
The men set to work , and in two hours the tower was built , and they proceeded to the palace to inform the king that his commands were fulfilled .
On the way they met the princess , who began to talk to one of the masons , and when the rest were out of hearing she asked if he could manage to make a hole in the tower , which nobody could see , large enough for a bottle of wine and some food to pass through .
` To be sure I can , ' said the mason , turning back , and in a few minutes the hole was bored .
At sunset a large crowd assembled to watch the youth being led to the tower , and after his misdeeds had been proclaimed he was solemnly walled up .
But every morning the princess passed him in food through the hole , and every third day the king sent his secretary to climb up a ladder and look down through a little window to see if he was dead .
But the secretary always brought back the report that he was fat and rosy .
` There is some magic about this , ' said the king .
This state of affairs lasted some time , till one day a messenger arrived from the Sultan bearing a letter for the king , and also three canes .
` My master bids me say , ' said the messenger , bowing low , ` that if you can not tell him which of these three canes grows nearest the root , which in the middle , and which at the top , he will declare war against you .
The king was very much frightened when he heard this , and though he took the canes and examined them closely , he could see no difference between them .
He looked so sad that his daughter noticed it , and inquired the reason .
` Alas !
my daughter , ' he answered , ` how can I help being sad ?
The Sultan has sent me three canes , and says that if I can not tell him which of them grows near the root , which in the middle , and which at the top , he will make war upon me .
And you know that his army is far greater than mine . '
` Oh , do not despair , my father , ' said she .
` We shall be sure to find out the answer ' ; and she ran away to the tower , and told the young man what had occurred .
` Go to bed as usual , ' replied he , ` and when you wake , tell your father that you have dreamed that the canes must be placed in warm water .
After a little while one will sink to the bottom ; that is the one that grows nearest the root .
The one which neither sinks nor comes to the surface is the cane that is cut from the middle ; and the one that floats is from the top . '
So , the next morning , the princess told her father of her dream , and by her advice he cut notches in each of the canes when he took them out of the water , so that he might make no mistake when he handed them back to the messenger .
The Sultan could not imagine how he had found out , but he did not declare war .
The following year the Sultan again wanted to pick a quarrel with the king of the Magyars , so he sent another messenger to him with three foals , begging him to say which of the animals was born in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening .
If an answer was not ready in three days , war would be declared at once .
The king 's heart sank when he read the letter .
He could not expect his daughter to be lucky enough to dream rightly a second time , and as a plague had been raging through the country , and had carried off many of his soldiers , his army was even weaker than before .
At this thought his face became so gloomy that his daughter noticed it , and inquired what was the matter . '
I have had another letter from the Sultan , ' replied the king , ` and he says that if I can not tell him which of three foals was born in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening , he will declare war at once . '
` Oh , do n't be cast down , ' said she , ` something is sure to happen ' ; and she ran down to the tower to consult the youth .
` Go home , idol of my heart , and when night comes , pretend to scream out in your sleep , so that your father hears you .
Then tell him that you have dreamt that he was just being carried off by the Turks because he could not answer the question about the foals , when the lad whom he had shut up in the tower ran up and told them which was foaled in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening . '
So the princess did exactly as the youth had bidden her ; and no sooner had she spoken than the king ordered the tower to be pulled down , and the prisoner brought before him . '
I did not think that you could have lived so long without food , ' said he , ` and as you have had plenty of time to repent your wicked conduct , I will grant you pardon , on condition that you help me in a sore strait .
Read this letter from the Sultan ; you will see that if I fail to answer his question about the foals , a dreadful war will be the result . '
The youth took the letter and read it through .
` Yes , I can help you , ' replied he ; ` but first you must bring me three troughs , all exactly alike .
Into one you must put oats , into another wheat , and into the third barley .
The foal which eats the oats is that which was foaled in the morning ; the foal which eats the wheat is that which was foaled at noon ; and the foal which eats the barley is that which was foaled at night . '
The king followed the youth 's directions , and , marking the foals , sent them back to Turkey , and there was no war that year .
Now the Sultan was very angry that both his plots to get possession of Hungary had been such total failures , and he sent for his aunt , who was a witch , to consult her as to what he should do next .
` It is not the king who has answered your questions , ' observed the aunt , when he had told his story .
` He is far too stupid ever to have done that !
The person who has found out the puzzle is the son of a poor woman , who , if he lives , will become King of Hungary .
Therefore , if you want the crown yourself , you must get him here and kill him . '
After this conversation another letter was written to the Court of Hungary , saying that if the youth , now in the palace , was not sent to Turkey within three days , a large army would cross the border .
The king 's heart was sorrowful as he read , for he was grateful to the lad for what he had done to help him ; but the boy only laughed , and bade the king fear nothing , but to search the town instantly for two youths just like each other , and he would paint himself a mask that was just like them .
And the sword at his side clanked loudly .
After a long search twin brothers were found , so exactly resembling each other that even their own mother could not tell the difference .
The youth painted a mask that was the precise copy of them , and when he had put it on , no one would have known one boy from the other .
They set out at once for the Sultan 's palace , and when they reached it , they were taken straight into his presence .
He made a sign for them to come near ; they all bowed low in greeting .
He asked them about their journey ; they answered his questions all together , and in the same words .
If one sat down to supper , the others sat down at the same instant .
When one got up , the others got up too , as if there had been only one body between them .
The Sultan could not detect any difference between them , and he told his aunt that he would not be so cruel as to kill all three .
` Well , you will see a difference to-morrow , ' replied the witch , ` for one will have a cut on his sleeve .
That is the youth you must kill . '
And one hour before midnight , when witches are invisible , she glided into the room where all three lads were sleeping in the same bed .
She took out a pair of scissors and cut a small piece out of the boy 's coat-sleeve which was hanging on the wall , and then crept silently from the room .
But in the morning the youth saw the slit , and he marked the sleeves of his two companions in the same way , and all three went down to breakfast with the Sultan .
The old witch was standing in the window and pretended not to see them ; but all witches have eyes in the backs of their heads , and she knew at once that not one sleeve but three were cut , and they were all as alike as before .
After breakfast , the Sultan , who was getting tired of the whole affair and wanted to be alone to invent some other plan , told them they might return home .
So , bowing low with one accord , they went .
The princess welcomed the boy back joyfully , but the poor youth was not allowed to rest long in peace , for one day a fresh letter arrived from the Sultan , saying that he had discovered that the young man was a very dangerous person , and that he must be sent to Turkey at once , and alone .
The girl burst into tears when the boy told her what was in the letter which her father had bade her to carry to him .
` Do not weep , love of my heart , ' said the boy , ` all will be well .
I will start at sunrise to-morrow . '
So next morning at sunrise the youth set forth , and in a few days he reached the Sultan 's palace .
The old witch was waiting for him at the gate , and whispered as he passed : ` This is the last time you will ever enter it . '
But the sword clanked , and the lad did not even look at her .
As he crossed the threshold fifteen armed Turks barred his way , with the Sultan at their head .
Instantly the sword darted forth and cut off the heads of everyone but the Sultan , and then went quietly back to its scabbard .
The witch , who was looking on , saw that as long as the youth had possession of the sword , all her schemes would be in vain , and tried to steal the sword in the night , but it only jumped out of its scabbard and sliced off her nose , which was of iron .
And in the morning , when the Sultan brought a great army to capture the lad and deprive him of his sword , they were all cut to pieces , while he remained without a scratch .
Meanwhile the princess was in despair because the days slipped by , and the young man did not return , and she never rested until her father let her lead some troops against the Sultan .
She rode proudly before them , dressed in uniform ; but they had not left the town more than a mile behind them , when they met the lad and his little sword .
When he told them what he had done they shouted for joy , and carried him back in triumph to the palace ; and the king declared that as the youth had shown himself worthy to become his son-in-law , he should marry the princess and succeed to the throne at once , as he himself was getting old , and the cares of government were too much for him .
But the young man said he must first go and see his mother , and the king sent him in state , with a troop of soldiers as his bodyguard .
The old woman was quite frightened at seeing such an array draw up before her little house , and still more surprised when a handsome young man , whom she did not know , dismounted and kissed her hand , saying : ` Now , dear mother , you shall hear my secret at last !
I dreamed that I should become King of Hungary , and my dream has come true .
When I was a child , and you begged me to tell you , I had to keep silence , or the Magyar king would have killed me .
And if you had not beaten me nothing would have happened that has happened , and I should not now be King of Hungary . '
-LSB- From the Folk Tales of the Magyars . -RSB-
The Prince And The Dragon Once upon a time there lived an emperor who had three sons .
They were all fine young men , and fond of hunting , and scarcely a day passed without one or other of them going out to look for game .
One morning the eldest of the three princes mounted his horse and set out for a neighbouring forest , where wild animals of all sorts were to be found .
He had not long left the castle , when a hare sprang out of a thicket and dashed across the road in front .
The young man gave chase at once , and pursued it over hill and dale , till at last the hare took refuge in a mill which was standing by the side of a river .
The prince followed and entered the mill , but stopped in terror by the door , for , instead of a hare , before him stood a dragon , breathing fire and flame .
At this fearful sight the prince turned to fly , but a fiery tongue coiled round his waist , and drew him into the dragon 's mouth , and he was seen no more .
A week passed away , and when the prince never came back everyone in the town began to grow uneasy .
At last his next brother told the emperor that he likewise would go out to hunt , and that perhaps he would find some clue as to his brother 's disappearance .
But hardly had the castle gates closed on the prince than the hare sprang out of the bushes as before , and led the huntsman up hill and down dale , till they reached the mill .
Into this the hare flew with the prince at his heels , when , lo !
instead of the hare , there stood a dragon breathing fire and flame ; and out shot a fiery tongue which coiled round the prince 's waist , and lifted him straight into the dragon 's mouth , and he was seen no more .
Days went by , and the emperor waited and waited for the sons who never came , and could not sleep at night for wondering where they were and what had become of them .
His youngest son wished to go in search of his brothers , but for long the emperor refused to listen to him , lest he should lose him also .
But the prince prayed so hard for leave to make the search , and promised so often that he would be very cautious and careful , that at length the emperor gave him permission , and ordered the best horse in the stables to be saddled for him .
Full of hope the young prince started on his way , but no sooner was he outside the city walls than a hare sprang out of the bushes and ran before him , till they reached the mill .
As before , the animal dashed in through the open door , but this time he was not followed by the prince .
Wiser than his brothers , the young man turned away , saying to himself : ` There are as good hares in the forest as any that have come out of it , and when I have caught them , I can come back and look for you . '
For many hours he rode up and down the mountain , but saw nothing , and at last , tired of waiting , he went back to the mill .
Here he found an old woman sitting , whom he greeted pleasantly .
` Good morning to you , little mother , ' he said ; and the old woman answered : ` Good morning , my son . '
` Tell me , little mother , ' went on the prince , ` where shall I find my hare ? '
` My son , ' replied the old woman , ` that was no hare , but a dragon who has led many men hither , and then has eaten them all . '
At these words the prince 's heart grew heavy , and he cried , ` Then my brothers must have come here , and have been eaten by the dragon ! '
` You have guessed right , ' answered the old woman ; ` and I can give you no better counsel than to go home at once , before the same fate overtakes you . '
` Will you not come with me out of this dreadful place ? '
said the young man .
` He took me prisoner , too , ' answered she , ` and I can not shake off his chains . '
` Then listen to me , ' cried the prince .
` When the dragon comes back , ask him where he always goes when he leaves here , and what makes him so strong ; and when you have coaxed the secret from him , tell me the next time I come . '
So the prince went home , and the old woman remained in the mill , and as soon as the dragon returned she said to him : ` Where have you been all this time -- you must have travelled far ? '
` Yes , little mother , I have indeed travelled far . '
answered he .
Then the old woman began to flatter him , and to praise his cleverness ; and when she thought she had got him into a good temper , she said : ' I have wondered so often where you get your strength from ; I do wish you would tell me .
I would stoop and kiss the place out of pure love ! '
The dragon laughed at this , and answered : ` In the hearthstone yonder lies the secret of my strength . '
Then the old woman jumped up and kissed the hearth ; whereat the dragon laughed the more , and said : ` You foolish creature !
I was only jesting .
It is not in the hearthstone , but in that tall tree that lies the secret of my strength . '
Then the old woman jumped up again and put her arms round the tree , and kissed it heartily .
Loudly laughed the dragon when he saw what she was doing .
` Old fool , ' he cried , as soon as he could speak , ` did you really believe that my strength came from that tree ? '
` Where is it then ? '
asked the old woman , rather crossly , for she did not like being made fun of .
` My strength , ' replied the dragon , ` lies far away ; so far that you could never reach it .
Far , far from here is a kingdom , and by its capital city is a lake , and in the lake is a dragon , and inside the dragon is a wild boar , and inside the wild boar is a pigeon , and inside the pigeon a sparrow , and inside the sparrow is my strength . '
And when the old woman heard this , she thought it was no use flattering him any longer , for never , never , could she take his strength from him .
The following morning , when the dragon had left the mill , the prince came back , and the old woman told him all that the creature had said .
He listened in silence , and then returned to the castle , where he put on a suit of shepherd 's clothes , and taking a staff in his hand , he went forth to seek a place as tender of sheep .
For some time he wandered from village to village and from town to town , till he came at length to a large city in a distant kingdom , surrounded on three sides by a great lake , which happened to be the very lake in which the dragon lived .
As was his custom , he stopped everybody whom he met in the streets that looked likely to want a shepherd and begged them to engage him , but they all seemed to have shepherds of their own , or else not to need any .
The prince was beginning to lose heart , when a man who had overheard his question turned round and said that he had better go and ask the emperor , as he was in search of some one to see after his flocks .
` Will you take care of my sheep ? '
said the emperor , when the young man knelt before him .
` Most willingly , your Majesty , ' answered the young man , and he listened obediently while the emperor told him what he was to do .
` Outside the city walls , ' went on the emperor , ` you will find a large lake , and by its banks lie the richest meadows in my kingdom .
When you are leading out your flocks to pasture , they will all run straight to these meadows , and none that have gone there have ever been known to come back .
Take heed , therefore , my son , not to suffer your sheep to go where they will , but drive them to any spot that you think best . '
With a low bow the prince thanked the emperor for his warning , and promised to do his best to keep the sheep safe .
Then he left the palace and went to the market-place , where he bought two greyhounds , a hawk , and a set of pipes ; after that he took the sheep out to pasture .
The instant the animals caught sight of the lake lying before them , they trotted off as fast as their legs would go to the green meadows lying round it .
The prince did not try to stop them ; he only placed his hawk on the branch of a tree , laid his pipes on the grass , and bade the greyhounds sit still ; then , rolling up his sleeves and trousers , he waded into the water crying as he did so : ` Dragon !
dragon !
if you are not a coward , come out and fight with me ! '
And a voice answered from the depths of the lake : ' I am waiting for you , O prince ' ; and the next minute the dragon reared himself out of the water , huge and horrible to see .
The prince sprang upon him and they grappled with each other and fought together till the sun was high , and it was noonday .
Then the dragon gasped : ' O prince , let me dip my burning head once into the lake , and I will hurl you up to the top of the sky . '
But the prince answered , ` Oh , ho !
my good dragon , do not crow too soon !
If the emperor 's daughter were only here , and would kiss me on the forehead , I would throw you up higher still ! '
And suddenly the dragon 's hold loosened , and he fell back into the lake .
As soon as it was evening , the prince washed away all signs of the fight , took his hawk upon his shoulder , and his pipes under his arm , and with his greyhounds in front and his flock following after him he set out for the city .
As they all passed through the streets the people stared in wonder , for never before had any flock returned from the lake .
The next morning he rose early , and led his sheep down the road to the lake .
This time , however , the emperor sent two men on horseback to ride behind him , with orders to watch the prince all day long .
The horsemen kept the prince and his sheep in sight , without being seen themselves .
As soon as they beheld the sheep running towards the meadows , they turned aside up a steep hill , which overhung the lake .
When the shepherd reached the place he laid , as before , his pipes on the grass and bade the greyhounds sit beside them , while the hawk he perched on the branch of the tree .
Then he rolled up his trousers and his sleeves , and waded into the water crying : ` Dragon !
dragon !
if you are not a coward , come out and fight with me ! '
And the dragon answered : ' I am waiting for you , O prince , ' and the next minute he reared himself out of the water , huge and horrible to see .
Again they clasped each other tight round the body and fought till it was noon , and when the sun was at its hottest , the dragon gasped : ' O prince , let me dip my burning head once in the lake , and I will hurl you up to the top of the sky . '
But the prince answered : ` Oh , ho !
my good dragon , do not crow too soon !
If the emperor 's daughter were only here , and would kiss me on the forehead , I would throw you up higher still ! '
And suddenly the dragon 's hold loosened , and he fell back into the lake .
As soon as it was evening the prince again collected his sheep , and playing on his pipes he marched before them into the city .
When he passed through the gates all the people came out of their houses to stare in wonder , for never before had any flock returned from the lake .
Meanwhile the two horsemen had ridden quickly back , and told the emperor all that they had seen and heard .
The emperor listened eagerly to their tale , then called his daughter to him and repeated it to her .
` To-morrow , ' he said , when he had finished , ` you shall go with the shepherd to the lake , and then you shall kiss him on the forehead as he wishes . '
But when the princess heard these words , she burst into tears , and sobbed out : ` Will you really send me , your only child , to that dreadful place , from which most likely I shall never come back ? '
` Fear nothing , my little daughter , all will be well .
Many shepherds have gone to that lake and none have ever returned ; but this one has in these two days fought twice with the dragon and has escaped without a wound .
So I hope to-morrow he will kill the dragon altogether , and deliver this land from the monster who has slain so many of our bravest men . '
Scarcely had the sun begun to peep over the hills next morning , when the princess stood by the shepherd 's side , ready to go to the lake .
The shepherd was brimming over with joy , but the princess only wept bitterly .
` Dry your tears , I implore you , ' said he .
` If you will just do what I ask you , and when the time comes , run and kiss my forehead , you have nothing to fear . '
Merrily the shepherd blew on his pipes as he marched at the head of his flock , only stopping every now and then to say to the weeping girl at his side : ` Do not cry so , Heart of Gold ; trust me and fear nothing . '
And so they reached the lake .
In an instant the sheep were scattered all over the meadows , and the prince placed his hawk on the tree , and his pipes on the grass , while he bade his greyhounds lie beside them .
Then he rolled up his trousers and his sleeves , and waded into the water , calling : ` Dragon !
dragon !
if you are not a coward , come forth , and let us have one more fight together . '
And the dragon answered : ' I am waiting for you , O prince ' ; and the next minute he reared himself out of the water , huge and horrible to see .
Swiftly he drew near to the bank , and the prince sprang to meet him , and they grasped each other round the body and fought till it was noon .
And when the sun was at its hottest , the dragon cried : ' O prince , let me dip my burning head in the lake , and I will hurl you to the top of the sky . '
But the prince answered : ` Oh , ho !
my good dragon , do not crow too soon !
If the emperor 's daughter were only here , and she would kiss my forehead , I would throw you higher still . '
Hardly had he spoken , when the princess , who had been listening , ran up and kissed him on the forehead .
Then the prince swung the dragon straight up into the clouds , and when he touched the earth again , he broke into a thousand pieces .
Out of the pieces there sprang a wild boar and galloped away , but the prince called his hounds to give chase , and they caught the boar and tore it to bits .
Out of the pieces there sprang a hare , and in a moment the greyhounds were after it , and they caught it and killed it ; and out of the hare there came a pigeon .
Quickly the prince let loose his hawk , which soared straight into the air , then swooped upon the bird and brought it to his master .
The prince cut open its body and found the sparrow inside , as the old woman had said .
` Now , ' cried the prince , holding the sparrow in his hand , ` now you shall tell me where I can find my brothers . '
` Do not hurt me , ' answered the sparrow , ` and I will tell you with all my heart . '
Behind your father 's castle stands a mill , and in the mill are three slender twigs .
Cut off these twigs and strike their roots with them , and the iron door of a cellar will open .
In the cellar you will find as many people , young and old , women and children , as would fill a kingdom , and among them are your brothers . '
By this time twilight had fallen , so the prince washed himself in the lake , took the hawk on his shoulder and the pipes under his arm , and with his greyhounds before him and his flock behind him , marched gaily into the town , the princess following them all , still trembling with fright .
And so they passed through the streets , thronged with a wondering crowd , till they reached the castle .
Unknown to anyone , the emperor had stolen out on horseback , and had hidden himself on the hill , where he could see all that happened .
When all was over , and the power of the dragon was broken for ever , he rode quickly back to the castle , and was ready to receive the prince with open arms , and to promise him his daughter to wife .
The wedding took place with great splendour , and for a whole week the town was hung with coloured lamps , and tables were spread in the hall of the castle for all who chose to come and eat .
And when the feast was over , the prince told the emperor and the people who he really was , and at this everyone rejoiced still more , and preparations were made for the prince and princess to return to their own kingdom , for the prince was impatient to set free his brothers .
The first thing he did when he reached his native country was to hasten to the mill , where he found the three twigs as the sparrow had told him .
The moment that he struck the root the iron door flew open , and from the cellar a countless multitude of men and women streamed forth .
He bade them go one by one wheresoever they would , while he himself waited by the door till his brothers passed through .
How delighted they were to meet again , and to hear all that the prince had done to deliver them from their enchantment .
And they went home with him and served him all the days of their lives , for they said that he only who had proved himself brave and faithful was fit to be king .
-LSB- From Volksmarehen der Serben . -RSB-
Little Wildrose Once upon a time the things in this story happened , and if they had not happened then the story would never have been told .
But that was the time when wolves and lambs lay peacefully together in one stall , and shepherds dined on grassy banks with kings and queens .
Once upon a time , then , my dear good children , there lived a man .
Now this man was really a hundred years old , if not fully twenty years more .
And his wife was very old too -- how old I do not know ; but some said she was as old as the goddess Venus herself .
They had been very happy all these years , but they would have been happier still if they had had any children ; but old though they were they had never made up their minds to do without them , and often they would sit over the fire and talk of how they would have brought up their children if only some had come to their house .
One day the old man seemed sadder and more thoughtful than was common with him , and at last he said to his wife : ` Listen to me , old woman ! '
` What do you want ? '
asked she .
` Get me some money out of the chest , for I am going a long journey -- all through the world -- to see if I can not find a child , for my heart aches to think that after I am dead my house will fall into the hands of a stranger .
And this let me tell you : that if I never find a child I shall not come home again . '
Then the old man took a bag and filled it with food and money , and throwing it over his shoulders , bade his wife farewell .
For long he wandered , and wandered , and wandered , but no child did he see ; and one morning his wanderings led him to a forest which was so thick with trees that no light could pass through the branches .
The old man stopped when he saw this dreadful place , and at first was afraid to go in ; but he remembered that , after all , as the proverb says : ` It is the unexpected that happens , ' and perhaps in the midst of this black spot he might find the child he was seeking .
So summoning up all his courage he plunged boldly in .
How long he might have been walking there he never could have told you , when at last he reached the mouth of a cave where the darkness seemed a hundred times darker than the wood itself .
Again he paused , but he felt as if something was driving him to enter , and with a beating heart he stepped in .
For some minutes the silence and darkness so appalled him that he stood where he was , not daring to advance one step .
Then he made a great effort and went on a few paces , and suddenly , far before him , he saw the glimmer of a light .
This put new heart into him , and he directed his steps straight towards the faint rays , till he could see , sitting by it , an old hermit , with a long white beard .
The hermit either did not hear the approach of his visitor , or pretended not to do so , for he took no notice , and continued to read his book .
After waiting patiently for a little while , the old man fell on his knees , and said : ` Good morning , holy father ! '
But he might as well have spoken to the rock .
` Good morning , holy father , ' he said again , a little louder than before , and this time the hermit made a sign to him to come nearer .
` My son , ' whispered he , in a voice that echoed through the cavern , ` what brings you to this dark and dismal place ?
Hundreds of years have passed since my eyes have rested on the face of a man , and I did not think to look on one again . '
.
` My misery has brought me here , ' replied the old man ; ' I have no child , and all our lives my wife and I have longed for one .
So I left my home , and went out into the world , hoping that somewhere I might find what I was seeking . '
Then the hermit picked up an apple from the ground , and gave it to him , saying : ` Eat half of this apple , and give the rest to your wife , and cease wandering through the world . '
The old man stooped and kissed the feet of the hermit for sheer joy , and left the cave .
He made his way through the forest as fast as the darkness would let him , and at length arrived in flowery fields , which dazzled him with their brightness .
Suddenly he was seized with a desperate thirst , and a burning in his throat .
He looked for a stream but none was to be seen , and his tongue grew more parched every moment .
At length his eyes fell on the apple , which all this while he had been holding in his hand , and in his thirst he forgot what the hermit had told him , and instead of eating merely his own half , he ate up the old woman 's also ; after that he went to sleep .
When he woke up he saw something strange lying on a bank a little way off , amidst long trails of pink roses .
The old man got up , rubbed his eyes , and went to see what it was , when , to his surprise and joy , it proved to be a little girl about two years old , with a skin as pink and white as the roses above her .
He took her gently in his arms , but she did not seem at all frightened , and only jumped and crowed with delight ; and the old man wrapped his cloak round her , and set off for home as fast as his legs would carry him .
When they were close to the cottage where they lived he laid the child in a pail that was standing near the door , and ran into the house , crying : ` Come quickly , wife , quickly , for I have brought you a daughter , with hair of gold and eyes like stars ! '
At this wonderful news the old woman flew downstairs , almost tumbling down ill her eagerness to see the treasure ; but when her husband led her to the pail it was perfectly empty !
The old man was nearly beside himself with horror , while his wife sat down and sobbed with grief and disappointment .
There was not a spot round about which they did not search , thinking that somehow the child might have got out of the pail and hidden itself for fun ; but the little girl was not there , and there was no sign of her .
` Where can she be ? '
moaned the old man , in despair .
` Oh , why did I ever leave her , even for a moment ?
Have the fairies taken her , or has some wild beast carried her off ? '
And they began their search all over again ; but neither fairies nor wild beasts did they meet with , and with sore hearts they gave it up at last and turned sadly into the hut .
And what had become of the baby ?
Well , finding herself left alone in a strange place she began to cry with fright , and an eagle hovering near , heard her , and went to see what the sound came from .
When he beheld the fat pink and white creature he thought of his hungry little ones at home , and swooping down he caught her up in his claws and was soon flying with her over the tops of the trees .
In a few minutes he reached the one in which he had built his nest , and laying little Wildrose -LRB- for so the old man had called her -RRB- among his downy young eaglets , he flew away .
The eaglets naturally were rather surprised at this strange animal , so suddenly popped down in their midst , but instead of beginning to eat her , as their father expected , they nestled up close to her and spread out their tiny wings to shield her from the sun .
Now , in the depths of the forest where the eagle had built his nest , there ran a stream whose waters were poisonous , and on the banks of this stream dwelt a horrible lindworm with seven heads .
The lindworm had often watched the eagle flying about the top of the tree , carrying food to his young ones and , accordingly , he watched carefully for the moment when the eaglets began to try their wings and to fly away from the nest .
Of course , if the eagle himself was there to protect them even the lindworm , big and strong as he was , knew that he could do nothing ; but when he was absent , any little eaglets who ventured too near the ground would be sure to disappear down the monster 's throat .
Their brothers , who had been left behind as too young and weak to see the world , knew nothing of all this , but supposed their turn would soon come to see the world also .
And in a few days their eyes , too , opened and their wings flapped impatiently , and they longed to fly away above the waving tree-tops to mountain and the bright sun beyond .
But that very midnight the lindworm , who was hungry and could not wait for his supper , came out of the brook with a rushing noise , and made straight for the tree .
Two eyes of flame came creeping nearer , nearer , and two fiery tongues were stretching themselves out closer , closer , to the little birds who were trembling and shuddering in the farthest corner of the nest .
But just as the tongues had almost reached them , the lindworm gave a fearful cry , and turned and fell backwards .
Then came the sound of battle from the ground below , and the tree shook , though there was no wind , and roars and snarls mixed together , till the eaglets felt more frightened than ever , and thought their last hour had come .
Only Wildrose was undisturbed , and slept sweetly through it all .
In the morning the eagle returned and saw traces of a fight below the tree , and here and there a handful of yellow mane lying about , and here and there a hard scaly substance ; when he saw that he rejoiced greatly , and hastened to the nest .
` Who has slain the lindworm ? '
he asked of his children ; there were so many that he did not at first miss the two which the lindworm had eaten .
But the eaglets answered that they could not tell , only that they had been in danger of their lives , and at the last moment they had been delivered .
Then the sunbeam had struggled through the thick branches and caught Wildrose 's golden hair as she lay curled up in the corner , and the eagle wondered , as he looked , whether the little girl had brought him luck , and it was her magic which had killed his enemy .
` Children , ' he said , ' I brought her here for your dinner , and you have not touched her ; what is the meaning of this ? '
But the eaglets did not answer , and Wildrose opened her eyes , and seemed seven times lovelier than before .
From that day Wildrose lived like a little princess .
The eagle flew about the wood and collected the softest , greenest moss he could find to make her a bed , and then he picked with his beak all the brightest and prettiest flowers in the fields or on the mountains to decorate it .
So cleverly did he manage it that there was not a fairy in the whole of the forest who would not have been pleased to sleep there , rocked to and fro by the breeze on the treetops .
And when the little ones were able to fly from their nest he taught them where to look for the fruits and berries which she loved .
So the time passed by , and with each year Wildrose grew taller and more beautiful , and she lived happily in her nest and never wanted to go out of it , only standing at the edge in the sunset , and looking upon the beautiful world .
For company she had all the birds in the forest , who came and talked to her , and for playthings the strange flowers which they brought her from far , and the butterflies which danced with her .
And so the days slipped away , and she was fourteen years old .
One morning the emperor 's son went out to hunt , and he had not ridden far , before a deer started from under a grove of trees , and ran before him .
The prince instantly gave chase , and where the stag led he followed , till at length he found himself in the depths of the forest , where no man before had trod .
The trees were so thick and the wood so dark , that he paused for a moment and listened , straining his ears to catch some sound to break a silence which almost frightened him .
But nothing came , not even the baying of a hound or the note of a horn .
He stood still , and wondered if he should go on , when , on looking up , a stream of light seemed to flow from the top of a tall tree .
In its rays he could see the nest with the young eaglets , who were watching him over the side .
The prince fitted an arrow into his bow and took his aim , but , before he could let fly , another ray of light dazzled him ; so brilliant was it , that his bow dropped , and he covered his face with his hands .
When at last he ventured to peep , Wildrose , with her golden hair flowing round her , was looking at him .
This was the first time she had seen a man .
` Tell me how I can reach you ? '
cried he ; but Wildrose smiled and shook her head , and sat down quietly .
The prince saw that it was no use , and turned and made his way out of the forest .
But he might as well have stayed there , for any good he was to his father , so full was his heart of longing for Wildrose .
Twice he returned to the forest in the hopes of finding her , but this time fortune failed him , and he went home as sad as ever .
At length the emperor , who could not think what had caused this change , sent for his son and asked him what was the matter .
Then the prince confessed that the image of Wildrose filled his soul , and that he would never be happy without her .
At first the emperor felt rather distressed .
He doubted whether a girl from a tree top would make a good empress ; but he loved his son so much that he promised to do all he could to find her .
So the next morning heralds were sent forth throughout the whole land to inquire if anyone knew where a maiden could be found who lived in a forest on the top of a tree , and to promise great riches and a place at court to any person who should find her .
But nobody knew .
All the girls in the kingdom had their homes on the ground , and laughed at the notion of being brought up in a tree . '
A nice kind of empress she would make , ' they said , as the emperor had done , tossing their heads with disdain ; for , having read many books , they guessed what she was wanted for .
The heralds were almost in despair , when an old woman stepped out of the crowd and came and spoke to them .
She was not only very old , but she was very ugly , with a hump on her back and a bald head , and when the heralds saw her they broke into rude laughter . '
I can show you the maiden who lives in the tree-top , ' she said , but they only laughed the more loudly .
` Get away , old witch ! '
they cried , ` you will bring us bad luck ' ; but the old woman stood firm , and declared that she alone knew where to find the maiden .
` Go with her , ' said the eldest of the heralds at last .
` The emperor 's orders are clear , that whoever knew anything of the maiden was to come at once to court .
Put her in the coach and take her with us . '
So in this fashion the old woman was brought to court .
` You have declared that you can bring hither the maiden from the wood ? '
said the emperor , who was seated on his throne .
` Yes , your Majesty , and I will keep my word , ' said she .
` Then bring her at once , ' said the emperor .
` Give me first a kettle and a tripod , ' asked the old w omen , and the emperor ordered them to be brought instantly .
The old woman picked them up , and tucking them under her arm went on her way , keeping at a little distance behind the royal huntsmen , who in their turn followed the prince .
Oh , what a noise that old woman made as she walked along !
She chattered to herself so fast and clattered her kettle so loudly that you would have thought that a whole campful of gipsies must be coming round the next corner .
But when they reached the forest , she bade them all wait outside , and entered the dark wood by herself .
She stopped underneath the tree where the maiden dwelt and , gathering some dry sticks , kindled a fire .
Next , she placed the tripod over it , and the kettle on top .
But something was the matter with the kettle .
As fast as the old woman put it where it was to stand , that kettle was sure to roll off , falling to the ground with a crash .
It really seemed bewitched , and no one knows what might have happened if Wildrose , who had been all the time peeping out of her nest , had not lost patience at the old woman 's stupidity , and cried out : ` The tripod wo n't stand on that hill , you must move it ! '
` But where am I to move it to , my child ? '
asked the old woman , looking up to the nest , and at the same moment trying to steady the kettle with one hand and the tripod with the other .
` Did n't I tell you that it was no good doing that , ' said Wildrose , more impatiently than before .
` Make a fire near a tree and hang the kettle from one of the branches . '
The old woman took the kettle and hung it on a little twig , which broke at once , and the kettle fell to the ground .
` If you would only show me how to do it , perhaps I should understand , ' said she .
Quick as thought , the maiden slid down the smooth trunk of the tree , and stood beside the stupid old woman , to teach her how things ought to be done .
But in an instant the old woman had caught up the girl and swung her over her shoulders , and was running as fast as she could go to the edge of the forest , where she had left the prince .
When he saw them coming he rushed eagerly to meet them , and he took the maiden in his arms and kissed her tenderly before them all .
Then a golden dress was put on her , and pearls were twined in her hair , and she took her seat in the emperor 's carriage which was drawn by six of the whitest horses in the world , and they carried her , without stopping to draw breath , to the gates of the palace .
And in three days the wedding was celebrated , and the wedding feast was held , and everyone who saw the bride declared that if anybody wanted a perfect wife they must go to seek her on top of a tree .
-LSB- Adapted from file Roumanian . -RSB-
Tiidu The Piper Once upon a time there lived a poor man who had more children than bread to feed them with .
However , they were strong and willing , and soon learned to make themselves of use to their father and mother , and when they were old enough they went out to service , and everyone was very glad to get them for servants , for they worked hard and were always cheerful .
Out of all the ten or eleven , there was only one who gave his parents any trouble , and this was a big lazy boy whose name was Tiidu .
Neither scoldings nor beatings nor kind words had any effect on him , and the older he grew the idler he got .
He spent his winters crouching close to a warm stove , and his summers asleep under a shady tree ; and if he was not doing either of these things he was playing tunes on his flute .
One day he was sitting under a bush playing so sweetly that you might easily have mistaken the notes for those of a bird , when an old man passed by .
` What trade do you wish to follow , my son ? '
he asked in a friendly voice , stopping as he did so in front of the youth .
` If I were only a rich man , and had no need to work , ' replied the boy , ' I should not follow any .
I could not bear to be anybody 's servant , as all my brothers and sisters are . '
The old man laughed as he heard this answer , and said : ` But I do not exactly see where your riches are to come from if you do not work for them .
Sleeping cats catch no mice .
He who wishes to become rich must use either his hands or his head , and be ready to toil night and day , or else -- ' But here the youth broke in rudely : ` Be silent , old man !
I have been told all that a hundred times over ; and it runs off me like water off a duck 's back .
No one will ever make a worker out of me . '
` You have one gift , ' replied the old man , taking no notice of this speech , ` and if you would only go about and play the pipes , you would easily earn , not only your daily bread , but a little money into the bargain .
Listen to me ; get yourself a set of pipes , and learn to play on them as well as you do on your flute , and wherever there are men to hear you , I promise you will never lack money . '
` But where am I to get the pipes from ? '
asked the youth .
` Blow on your flute for a few days , ' replied the old man , ` and you will soon be able to buy your pipes .
By-and-by I will come back again and see if you have taken my advice , and whether you are likely to grow rich . '
And so saying he went his way .
Tiidu stayed where he was a little longer , thinking of all the old man had told him , and the more he thought the surer he felt that the old man was right .
He determined to try whether his plan would really bring luck ; but as he did not like being laughed at he resolved not to tell anyone a word about it .
So next morning he left home -- and never came back !
His parents did not take his loss much to heart , but were rather glad that their useless son had for once shown a little spirit , and they hoped that time and hardship might cure Tiidu of his idle folly .
For some weeks Tiidu wandered from one village to another , and proved for himself the truth of the old man 's promise .
The people he met were all friendly and kind , and enjoyed his flute-playing , giving him his food in return , and even a few pence .
These pence the youth hoarded carefully till he had collected enough to buy a beautiful pair of pipes .
Then he felt himself indeed on the high road to riches .
Nowhere could pipes be found as fine as his , or played in so masterly a manner .
Tiidu 's pipes set everybody 's legs dancing .
Wherever there was a marriage , a christening , or a feast of any kind , Tiidu must be there , or the evening would be a failure .
In a few years he had become so noted a piper that people would travel far and wide to hear him .
One day he was invited to a christening where many rich men from the neighbouring town were present , and all agreed that never in all their lives had they heard such playing as his .
They crowded round him , and praised him , and pressed him to come to their homes , declaring that it was a shame not to give their friends the chance of hearing such music .
Of course all this delighted Tiidu , who accepted gladly , and left their houses laden with money and presents of every kind ; one great lord clothed him in a magnificent dress , a second hung a chain of pearls round his neck , while a third handed him a set of new pipes encrusted in silver .
As for the ladies , the girls twisted silken scarves round his plumed hat , and their mothers knitted him gloves of all colours , to keep out the cold .
Any other man in Tiidu 's place would have been contented and happy in this life ; but his craving for riches gave him no rest , and only goaded him day by day to fresh exertions , so that even his own mother would not have known him for the lazy boy who was always lying asleep in one place or the other .
Now Tiidu saw quite clearly that he could only hope to become rich by means of his pipes , and set about thinking if there was nothing he could do to make the money flow in faster .
At length he remembered having heard some stories of a kingdom in the Kungla country , where musicians of all sorts were welcomed and highly paid ; but where it was , or how it was reached , he could not recollect , however hard he thought .
In despair , he wandered along the coast , hoping to see some ship or sailing boat that would take him where he wished to go , and at length he reached the town of Narva , where several merchantmen were lying at anchor .
To his great joy , he found that one of them was sailing for Kungla in a few days , and he hastily went on board , and asked for the captain .
But the cost of the passage was more than the prudent Tiidu cared to pay , and though he played his best on his pipes , the captain refused to lower his price , and Tiidu was just thinking of returning on shore when his usual luck flew to his aid .
A young sailor , who had heard him play , came secretly to him , and offered to hide him on board , in the absence of the captain .
So the next night , as soon as it was dark , Tiidu stepped softly on deck , and was hidden by his friend down in the hold in a corner between two casks .
Unseen by the rest of the crew the sailor managed to bring him food and drink , and when they were well out of sight of land he proceeded to carry out a plan he had invented to deliver Tiidu from his cramped quarters .
At midnight , while he was keeping watch and everyone else was sleeping , the man bade his friend Tiidu follow him on deck , where he tied a rope round Tiidu 's body , fastening the other end carefully to one of the ship 's ropes .
` Now , ' he said , ' I will throw you into the sea , and you must shout for help ; and when you see the sailors coming untie the rope from your waist , and tell them that you have swum after the ship all the way from shore . '
At first Tiidu did not much like this scheme , for the sea ran high , but he was a good swimmer , and the sailor assured him that there was no danger .
As soon as he was in the water , his friend hastened to rouse his mates , declaring that he was sure that there was a man in the sea , following the ship .
They all came on deck , and what was their surprise when they recognised the person who had bargained about a passage the previous day with the captain .
` Are you a ghost , or a dying man ? '
they asked him trembling , as they stooped over the side of the ship . '
I shall soon indeed be a dead man if you do not help me , ' answered Tiidu , ` for my strength is going fast . '
Then the captain seized a rope and flung it out to him , and Tiidu held it between his teeth , while , unseen by the sailors ; he loosed the one tied round his waist .
` Where have you come from ? '
said the captain , when Tiidu was brought up on board the ship . '
I have followed you from the harbour , ' answered he , ` and have been often in sore dread lest my strength should fail me .
I hoped that by swimming after the ship I might at last reach Kungla , as I had no money to pay my passage . '
The captain 's heart melted at these words , and he said kindly : ` You may be thankful that you were not drowned .
I will land you at Kungla free of payment , as you are so anxious to get there .
So he gave him dry clothes to wear , and a berth to sleep in , and Tiidu and his friend secretly made merry over their cunning trick .
For the rest of the voyage the ship 's crew treated Tiidu as something higher than themselves , seeing that in all their lives they had never met with any man that could swim for as many hours as he had done .
This pleased Tiidu very much , though he knew that he had really done nothing to deserve it , and in return he delighted them by tunes on his pipes .
When , after some days , they cast anchor at Kungla , the story of his wonderful swim brought him many friends , for everybody wished to hear him tell the tale himself .
This might have been all very well , had not Tiidu lived in dread that some day he would be asked to give proof of his marvellous swimming powers , and then everything would be found out .
Meanwhile he was dazzled with the splendour around him , and more than ever he longed for part of the riches , about which the owners seemed to care so little .
He wandered through the streets for many days , seeking some one who wanted a servant ; but though more than one person would have been glad to engage him , they seemed to Tiidu not the sort of people to help him to get rich quickly .
At last , when he had almost made up his mind that he must accept the next place offered him , he happened to knock at the door of a rich merchant who was in need of a scullion , and gladly agreed to do the cook 's bidding , and it was in this merchant 's house that he first learned how great were the riches of the land of Kungla .
All the vessels which in other countries are made of iron , copper , brass , or tin , in Kungla were made of silver , or even of gold .
The food was cooked in silver saucepans , the bread baked in a silver oven , while the dishes and their covers were all of gold .
Even the very pigs ' troughs were of silver too .
But the sight of these things only made Tiidu more covetous than before .
` What is the use of all this wealth that I have constantly before my eyes , ' thought he , ` if none of it is mine ?
I shall never grow rich by what I earn as a scullion , even though I am paid as much in a month as I should get elsewhere in a year . '
By this time he had been in his place for two years , and had put by quite a large sum of money .
His passion of saving had increased to such a pitch that it was only by his master 's orders that he ever bought any new clothes , ` For , ' said the merchant , ' I will not have dirty people in my house . '
So with a heavy heart Tiidu spent some of his next month 's wages on a cheap coat .
One day the merchant held a great feast in honour of the christening of his youngest child , and he gave each of his servants a handsome garment for the occasion .
The following Sunday , Tiidu , who liked fine clothes when he did not have to pay for them , put on his new coat , and went for a walk to some beautiful pleasure gardens , which were always full of people on a sunny day .
He sat down under a shady tree , and watched the passers-by , but after a little he began to feel rather lonely , for he knew nobody and nobody knew him .
Suddenly his eyes fell on the figure of an old man , which seemed familiar to him , though he could not tell when or where he had seen it .
He watched the figure for some time , till at length the old man left the crowded paths , and threw himself on the soft grass under a lime tree , which stood at some distance from where Tiidu was sitting .
Then the young man walked slowly past , in order that he might look at him more closely , and as he did so the old man smiled , and held out his hand .
` What have you done with your pipes ? '
asked he ; and then in a moment Tiidu knew him .
Taking his arm he drew him into a quiet place and told him all that had happened since they had last met .
The old man shook his head as he listened , and when Tiidu had finished his tale , he said : ' A fool you are , and a fool you will always be !
Was there ever such a piece of folly as to exchange your pipes for a scullion 's ladle ?
You could have made as much by the pipes in a day as your wages would have come to in half a year .
Go home and fetch your pipes , and play them here , and you will soon see if I have spoken the truth . '
Tiidu did not like this advice -- he was afraid that the people would laugh at him ; and , besides , it was long since he had touched his pipes -- but the old man persisted , and at last Tiidu did as he was told .
` Sit down on the bank by me , ' said the old man , when he came back , ` and begin to play , and in a little while the people will flock round you . '
Tiidu obeyed , at first without much heart ; but somehow the tone of the pipes was sweeter than he had remembered , and as he played , the crowd ceased to walk and chatter , and stood still and silent round him .
When he had played for some time he took off his hat and passed it round , and dollars , and small silver coins , and even gold pieces , came tumbling in .
Tiidu played a couple more tunes by way of thanks , then turned to go home , hearing on all sides murmurs of ` What a wonderful piper !
Come back , we pray you , next Sunday to give us another treat . '
` What did I tell you ? '
said the old man , as they passed through the garden gate .
` Was it not pleasanter to play for a couple of hours on the pipes than to be stirring sauces all day long ?
For the second time I have shown you the path to follow ; try to learn wisdom , and take the bull by the horns , lest your luck should slip from you !
I can be your guide no longer , therefore listen to what I say , and obey me .
Go every Sunday afternoon to those gardens ; and sit under the lime tree and play to the people , and bring a felt hat with a deep crown , and lay it on the ground at your feet , so that everyone can throw some money into it .
If you are invited to play at a feast , accept willingly , but beware of asking a fixed price ; say you will take whatever they may feel inclined to give .
You will get far more money in the end .
Perhaps , some day , our paths may cross , and then I shall see how far you have followed my advice .
Till then , farewell ' ; and the old man went his way .
As before , his words came true , though Tiidu could not at once do his bidding , as he had first to fulfil his appointed time of service .
Meanwhile he ordered some fine clothes , in which he played every Sunday in the gardens , and when he counted his gains in the evening they were always more than on the Sunday before .
At length he was free to do as he liked , and he had more invitations to play than he could manage to accept , and at night , when the citizens used to go and drink in the inn , the landlord always begged Tiidu to come and play to them .
Thus he grew so rich that very soon he had his silver pipes covered with gold , so that they glistened in the light of the sun or the fire .
In all Kungla there was no prouder man than Tiidu .
In a few years he had saved such a large sum of money that he was considered a rich man even in Kungla , where everybody was rich .
And then he had leisure to remember that he had once had a home , and a family , and that he should like to see them both again , and show them how well he could play .
This time he would not need to hide in the ship 's hold , but could hire the best cabin if he wished to , or even have a vessel all to himself .
So he packed all his treasures in large chests , and sent them on board the first ship that was sailing to his native land , and followed them with a light heart .
The wind at starting was fair , but it soon freshened , and in the night rose to a gale .
For two days they ran before it , and hoped that by keeping well out to sea they might be able to weather the storm , when , suddenly , the ship struck on a rock , and began to fill .
Orders were given to lower the boats , and Tiidu with three sailors got into one of them , but before they could push away from the ship a huge wave overturned it , and all four were flung into the water .
Luckily for Tiidu an oar was floating near him , and with its help he was able to keep on the surface of the water ; and when the sun rose , and the mist cleared away , he saw that he was not far from shore .
By hard swimming , for the sea still ran high , he managed to reach it , and pulled himself out of the water , more dead than alive .
Then he flung himself down on the ground and fell fast asleep .
When he awoke he got up to explore the island , and see if there were any men upon it ; but though he found streams and fruit trees in abundance , there was no trace either of man or beast .
Then , tired with his wanderings he sat down and began to think .
For perhaps the first time in his life his thoughts did not instantly turn to money .
It was not on his lost treasures that his mind dwelt , but on his conduct to his parents : his laziness and disobedience as a boy ; his forgetfulness of them as a man .
` If wild animals were to come and tear me to pieces , ' he said to himself bitterly , ` it would be only what I deserve !
My gains are all at the bottom of the sea -- well !
lightly won , lightly lost -- but it is odd that I feel I should not care for that if only my pipes were left me . '
Then he rose and walked a little further , till he saw a tree with great red apples shining amidst the leaves , and he pulled some down , and ate them greedily .
After that he stretched himself out on the soft moss and went to sleep .
In the morning he ran to the nearest stream to wash himself , but to his horror , when he caught sight of his face , he saw his nose had grown the colour of an apple , and reached nearly to his waist .
He started back thinking he was dreaming , and put up his hand ; but , alas !
the dreadful thing was true .
` Oh , why does not some wild beast devour me ? '
he cried to himself ; ` never , never , can I go again amongst my fellow-men !
If only the sea had swallowed me up , how much happier it had been for me ! '
And he hid his head in his hands and wept .
His grief was so violent , that it exhausted him , and growing hungry he looked about for something to eat .
Just above him was a bough of ripe , brown nuts , end he picked them and ate a handful .
To his surprise , as he was eating them , he felt his nose grow shorter and shorter , and after a while he ventured to feel it with his hand , and even to look in the stream again !
Yes , there was no mistake , it was as short as before , or perhaps a little shorter .
In his joy at this discovery Tiidu did a very bold thing .
He took one of the apples out of his pocket , and cautiously bit a piece out of it .
In an instant his nose was as long as his chin , and in a deadly fear lest it should stretch further , he hastily swallowed a nut , and awaited the result with terror .
Supposing that the shrinking of his nose had only been an accident before !
Supposing that that nut and no other was able to cause its shrinking !
In that case he had , by his own folly , in not letting well alone , ruined his life completely .
But , no !
he had guessed rightly , for in no more time than his nose had taken to grow long did it take to return to its proper size .
` This may make my fortune , ' he said joyfully to himself ; and he gathered some of the apples , which he put into one pocket , and a good supply of nuts which he put into the other .
Next day he wove a basket out of some rushes , so that if he ever left the island he might be able to carry his treasures about .
That night he dreamed that his friend the old man appeared to him and said : ` Because you did not mourn for your lost treasure , but only for your pipes , I will give you a new set to replace them . '
And , behold !
in the morning when he got up a set of pipes was lying in the basket .
With what joy did he seize them and begin one of his favourite tunes ; and as he played hope sprang up in his heart , and he looked out to sea , to try to detect the sign of a sail .
Yes !
there it was , making straight for the island ; and Tiidu , holding his pipes in his hand , dashed down to the shore .
The sailors knew the island to be uninhabited , and were much surprised to see a man standing on the beach , waving his arms in welcome to them .
A boat was put off , and two sailors rowed to the shore to discover how he came there , and if he wished to be taken away .
Tiidu told them the story of his shipwreck , and the captain promised that he should come on board , and sail with them back to Kungla ; and thankful indeed was Tiidu to accept the offer , and to show his gratitude by playing on his pipes whenever he was asked to do so .
They had a quick voyage , and it was not long before Tiidu found himself again in the streets of the capital of Kungla , playing as he went along .
The people had heard no music like his since he went away , and they crowded round him , and in their joy gave him whatever money they had in their pockets .
His first care was to buy himself some new clothes , which he sadly needed , taking care , however , that they should be made after a foreign fashion .
When they were ready , he set out one day with a small basket of his famous apples , and went up to the palace .
He did not have to wait long before one of the royal servants passed by and bought all the apples , begging as he did so that the merchant should return and bring some more .
This Tiidu promised , and hastened away as if he had a mad bull behind him , so afraid was he that the man should begin to eat an apple at once .
It is needless to say that for some days he took no more apples back to the palace , but kept well away on the other side of the town , wearing other clothes , and disguised by a long black beard , so that even his own mother would not have known him .
The morning after his visit to the castle the whole city was in an uproar about the dreadful misfortune that had happened to the Royal Family , for not only the king but his wife and children , had eaten of the stranger 's apples , and all , so said the rumour , were very ill .
The most famous doctors and the greatest magicians were hastily summoned to the palace , but they shook their heads and came away again ; never had they met with such a disease in all the course of their experience .
By-and-bye a story went round the town , started no one knew how , that the malady was in some way connected with the nose ; and men rubbed their own anxiously , to be sure that nothing catching was in the air .
Matters had been in this state for more than a week when it reached the ears of the king that a man was living in an inn on the other side of the town who declared himself able to cure all manner of diseases .
Instantly the royal carriage was commanded to drive with all speed and bring back this magician , offering him riches untold if he could restore their noses to their former length .
Tiidu had expected this summons , and had sat up all night changing his appearance , and so well had he succeeded that not a trace remained either of the piper or of the apple seller .
He stepped into the carriage , and was driven post haste to the king , who was feverishly counting every moment , for both his nose and the queen 's were by this time more than a yard long , and they did not know where they would stop .
Now Tiidu thought it would not look well to cure the royal family by giving them the raw nuts ; he felt that it might arouse suspicion .
So he had carefully pounded them into a powder , and divided the powder up into small doses , which were to be put on the tongue and swallowed at once .
He gave one of these to the king and another to the queen , and told them that before taking them they were to get into bed in a dark room and not to move for some hours , after which they might be sure that they would come out cured .
The king 's joy was so great at this news that he would gladly have given Tiidu half of his kingdom ; but the piper was no longer so greedy of money as he once was , before he had been shipwrecked on the island .
If he could get enough to buy a small estate and live comfortably on it for the rest of his life , that was all he now cared for .
However , the king ordered his treasure to pay him three times as much as he asked , and with this Tiidu went down to the harbour and engaged a small ship to carry him back to his native country .
The wind was fair , and in ten days the coast , which he had almost forgotten , stood clear before him .
In a few hours he was standing in his old home , where his father , three sisters , and two brothers gave him a hearty welcome .
His mother and his other brothers had died some years before .
When the meeting was over , he began to make inquiries about a small estate that was for sale near the town , and after he had bought it the next thing was to find a wife to share it with him .
This did not take long either ; and people who were at the wedding feast declared that the best part of the whole day was the hour when Tiidu played to them on the pipes before they bade each other farewell and returned to their homes .
-LSB- From Esthnische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Paperarelloo Once upon a time there lived a king and a queen who had one son .
The king loved the boy very much , but the queen , who was a wicked woman , hated the sight of him ; and this was the more unlucky for , when he was twelve years old , his father died , and he was left alone in the world .
Now the queen was very angry because the people , who knew how bad she was , seated her son on the throne instead of herself , and she never rested till she had formed a plan to get him out of the way .
Fortunately , however , the young king was wise and prudent , and knew her too well to trust her .
One day , when his mourning was over , he gave orders that everything should be made ready for a grand hunt .
The queen pretended to be greatly delighted that he was going to amuse himself once more , and declared that she would accompany him .
` No , mother , I can not let you come , ' he answered ; ` the ground is rough , and you are not strong . '
But he might as well have spoken to the winds : when the horn was sounded at daybreak the queen was there with the rest .
All that day they rode , for game was plentiful , but towards evening the mother and son found themselves alone in a part of the country that was strange to them .
They wandered on for some time , without knowing where they were going , till they met with a man whom they begged to give them shelter .
` Come with me , ' said the man gladly , for he was an ogre , and fed on human flesh ; and the king and his mother went with him , and he led them to his house .
When they got there they found to what a dreadful place they had come , and , falling on their knees , they offered him great sums of money , if he would only spare their lives .
The ogre 's heart was moved at the sight of the queen 's beauty , and he promised that he would do her no harm ; but he stabbed the boy at once , and binding his body on a horse , turned him loose in the forest .
The ogre had happened to choose a horse which he had bought only the day before , and he did not know it was a magician , or he would not have been so foolish as to fix upon it on this occasion .
The horse no sooner had been driven off with the prince 's body on its back than it galloped straight to the home of the fairies , and knocked at the door with its hoof .
The fairies heard the knock , but were afraid to open till they had peeped from an upper window to see that it was no giant or ogre who could do them harm .
` Oh , look , sister ! '
cried the first to reach the window , ` it is a horse that has knocked , and on its back there is bound a dead boy , the most beautiful boy in all the world ! '
Then the fairies ran to open the door , and let in the horse and unbound the ropes which fastened the young king on its back .
And they gathered round to admire his beauty , and whispered one to the other : ` We will make him alive again , and will keep him for our brother . '
And so they did , and for many years they all lived together as brothers and sisters .
By-and-by the boy grew into a man , as boys will , and then the oldest of the fairies said to her sisters : ` Now I will marry him , and he shall be really your brother . '
So the young king married the fairy , and they lived happily together in the castle ; but though he loved his wife he still longed to see the world .
At length this longing grew so strong on him that he could bear it no more ; and , calling the fairies together , he said to them : ` Dear wife and sisters , I must leave you for a time , and go out and see the world .
But I shall think of you often , and one day I shall come back to you . '
The fairies wept and begged him to stay , but he would not listen , and at last the eldest , who was his wife , said to him : ` If you really will abandon us , take this lock of my hair with you ; you will find it useful in time of need . '
So she cut off a long curl , and handed it to him .
The prince mounted his horse , and rode on all day without stopping once .
Towards evening he found himself in a desert , and , look where he would , there was no such thing as a house or a man to be seen .
` What am I to do now ? '
he thought .
` If I go to sleep here wild beasts will come and eat me !
Yet both I and my horse are worn out , and can go no further . '
Then suddenly he remembered the fairy 's gift , and taking out the curl he said to it : ' I want a castle here , and servants , and dinner , and everything to make me comfortable tonight ; and besides that , I must have a stable and fodder for my horse . '
And in a moment the castle was before him just as he had wished .
In this way he travelled through many countries , till at last he came to a land that was ruled over by a great king .
Leaving his horse outside the walls , he clad himself in the dress of a poor man , and went up to the palace .
The queen , who was looking out of the window , saw him approaching , and filled with pity sent a servant to ask who he was and what he wanted . '
I am a stranger here , ' answered the young king , ` and very poor .
I have come to beg for some work . '
` We have everybody we want , ' said the queen , when the servant told her the young man 's reply .
` We have a gate-keeper , and a hall porter , and servants of all sorts in the palace ; the only person we have not got is a goose-boy .
Tell him that he can be our goose-boy if he likes . '
The youth answered that he was quite content to be goose-boy ; and that was how he got his nickname of Paperarello .
And in order that no one should guess that he was any better than a goose-boy should be , he rubbed his face and his rags over with mud , and made himself altogether such a disgusting object that every one crossed over to the other side of the road when he was seen coming .
` Do go and wash yourself , Paperarello ! '
said the queen sometimes , for he did his work so well that she took an interest in him .
` Oh , I should not feel comfortable if I was clean , your Majesty , ' answered he , and went whistling after his geese .
It happened one day that , owing to some accident to the great flour mills which supplied the city , there was no bread to be had , and the king 's army had to do without .
When the king heard of it , he sent for the cook , and told him that by the next morning he must have all the bread that the oven , heated seven times over , could bake .
` But , your Majesty , it is not possible , ' cried the poor man in despair .
` The mills have only just begun working , and the flour will not be ground till evening , and how can I heat the oven seven times in one night ? '
` That is your affair , ' answered the King , who , when he took anything into his head , would listen to nothing .
` If you succeed in baking the bread you shall have my daughter to wife , but if you fail your head will pay for it . '
Now Paperarello , who was passing through the hall where the king was giving his orders , heard these words , and said : ` Your Majesty , have no fears ; I will bake your bread . '
` Very well , ' answered the king ; ` but if you fail , you will pay for it with your head ! '
and signed that both should leave his presence .
The cook was still trembling with the thought of what he had escaped , but to his surprise Paperarello did not seem disturbed at all , and when night came he went to sleep as usual .
` Paperarello , ' cried the other servants , when they saw him quietly taking off his clothes , ` you can not go to bed ; you will need every moment of the night for your work .
Remember , the king is not to be played with ! ' '
I really must have some sleep first , ' replied Paperarello , stretching himself and yawning ; and he flung himself on his bed , and was fast asleep in a moment .
In an hour 's time , the servants came and shook him by the shoulder .
` Paperarello , are you mad ? '
said they .
` Get up , or you will lose your head . '
` Oh , do let me sleep a little more , answered he .
And this was all he would say , though the servants returned to wake him many times in the night .
At last the dawn broke , and the servants rushed to his room , crying : ` Paperarello !
Paperarello !
get up , the king is coming .
You have baked no bread , and of a surety he will have your head . '
` Oh , do n't scream so , ' replied Paperarello , jumping out of bed as he spoke ; and taking the lock of hair in his hand , he went into the kitchen .
And , behold !
there stood the bread piled high -- four , five , six ovens full , and the seventh still waiting to be taken out of the oven .
The servants stood and stared in surprise , and the king said : ` Well done , Paperarello , you have won my daughter . '
And he thought to himself : ` This fellow must really be a magician . '
But when the princess heard what was in store for her she wept bitterly , and declared that never , never would she marry that dirty Paperarello !
However , the king paid no heed to her tears and prayers , and before many days were over the wedding was celebrated with great splendour , though the bridegroom had not taken the trouble to wash himself , and was as dirty as before .
When night came he went as usual to sleep among his geese , and the princess went to the king and said : ` Father , I entreat you to have that horrible Paperarello put to death . '
` No , no ! '
replied her father , ` he is a great magician , and before I put him to death , I must first find out the secret of his power , and then -- we shall see . '
Soon after this a war broke out , and everybody about the palace was very busy polishing up armour and sharpening swords , for the king and his sons were to ride at the head of the army .
Then Paperarello left his geese , and came and told the king that he wished to go to fight also .
The king gave him leave , and told him that he might go to the stable and take any horse he liked from the stables .
So Paperarello examined the horses carefully , but instead of picking out one of the splendid well-groomed creatures , whose skin shone like satin , he chose a poor lame thing , put a saddle on it , and rode after the other men-at-arms who were attending the king .
In a short time he stopped , and said to them : ` My horse can go no further ; you must go on to the war without me , and I will stay here , and make some little clay soldiers , and will play at a battle . '
The men laughed at him for being so childish , and rode on after their master .
Scarcely were they out of sight than Paperarello took out his curl , and wished himself the best armour , the sharpest sword , and the swiftest horse in the world , and the next minute was riding as fast as he could to the field of battle .
The fight had already begun , and the enemy was getting the best of it , when Paperarello rode up , and in a moment the fortunes of the day had changed .
Right and left this strange knight laid about him , and his sword pierced the stoutest breast-plate , and the strongest shield .
He was indeed ' a host in himself , ' and his foes fled before him thinking he was only the first of a troop of such warriors , whom no one could withstand .
When the battle was over , the king sent for him to thank him for his timely help , and to ask what reward he should give him .
` Nothing but your little finger , your Majesty , ' was his answer ; and the king cut off his little finger and gave it to Paperarello , who bowed and hid it in his surcoat .
Then he left the field , and when the soldiers rode back they found him still sitting in the road making whole rows of little clay dolls .
The next day the king went out to fight another battle , and again Paperarello appeared , mounted on his lame horse .
As on the day before , he halted on the road , and sat down to make his clay soldiers ; then a second time he wished himself armour , sword , and a horse , all sharper and better than those he had previously had , and galloped after the rest .
He was only just in time : the enemy had almost beaten the king 's army back , and men whispered to each other that if the strange knight did not soon come to their aid , they would be all dead men .
Suddenly someone cried : ` Hold on a little longer , I see him in the distance ; and his armour shines brighter , and his horse runs swifter , than yesterday . '
Then they took fresh heart and fought desperately on till the knight came up , and threw himself into the thick of the battle .
As before , the enemy gave way before him , and in a few minutes the victory remained with the king .
The first thing that the victor did was to send for the knight to thank him for his timely help , and to ask what gift he could bestow on him in token of gratitude .
` Your Majesty 's ear , ' answered the knight ; and as the king could not go back from his word , he cut it off and gave it to him .
Paperarello bowed , fastened the ear inside his surcoat and rode away .
In the evening , when they all returned from the battle , there he was , sitting in the road , making clay dolls .
On the third day the same thing happened , and this time he asked for the king 's nose as the reward of his aid .
Now , to lose one 's nose , is worse even than losing one 's ear or one 's finger , and the king hesitated as to whether he should comply .
However , he had always prided himself on being an honourable man , so he cut off his nose , and handed it to Paperarello .
Paperarello bowed , put the nose in his surcoat , and rode away .
In the evening , when the king returned from the battle , he found Paperarello sitting in the road making clay dolls .
And Paperarello got up and said to him : ` Do you know who I am ?
I am your dirty goose-boy , yet you have given me your finger , and your ear , and your nose . '
That night , when the king sat at dinner , Paperarello came in , and laying down the ear , and the nose , and the finger on the table , turned and said to the nobles and courtiers who were waiting on the king : ' I am the invincible knight , who rode three times to your help , and I also am a king 's son , and no goose-boy as you all think . '
And he went away and washed himself , and dressed himself in fine clothes and entered the hall again , looking so handsome that the proud princess fell in love with him on the spot .
But Paperarello took no notice of her , and said to the king : ` It was kind of you to offer me your daughter in marriage , and for that I thank you ; but I have a wife at home whom I love better , and it is to her that I am going .
But as a token of farewell , I wish that your ear , and nose , and finger may be restored to their proper places . '
So saying , he bade them all goodbye , and went back to his home and his fairy bride , with whom he lived happily till the end of his life .
-LSB- From Sicilianisohen Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Gifts Of The Magician Once upon a time there was an old man who lived in a little hut in the middle of a forest .
His wife was dead , and he had only one son , whom he loved dearly .
Near their hut was a group of birch trees , in which some black-game had made their nests , and the youth had often begged his father 's permission to shoot the birds , but the old man always strictly forbade him to do anything of the kind .
One day , however , when the father had gone to a little distance to collect some sticks for the fire , the boy fetched his bow , and shot at a bird that was just flying towards its nest .
But he had not taken proper aim , and the bird was only wounded , and fluttered along the ground .
The boy ran to catch it , but though he ran very fast , and the bird seemed to flutter along very slowly , he never could quite come up with it ; it was always just a little in advance .
But so absorbed was he in the chase that he did not notice for some time that he was now deep in the forest , in a place where he had never been before .
Then he felt it would be foolish to go any further , and he turned to find his way home .
He thought it would be easy enough to follow the path along which he had come , but somehow it was always branching off in unexpected directions .
He looked about for a house where he might stop and ask his way , but there was not a sign of one anywhere , and he was afraid to stand still , for it was cold , and there were many stories of wolves being seen in that part of the forest .
Night fell , and he was beginning to start at every sound , when suddenly a magician came running towards him , with a pack of wolves snapping at his heels .
Then all the boy 's courage returned to him .
He took his bow , and aiming an arrow at the largest wolf , shot him through the heart , and a few more arrows soon put the rest to flight .
The magician was full of gratitude to his deliverer , and promised him a reward for his help if the youth would go back with him to his house .
` Indeed there is nothing that would be more welcome to me than a night 's lodging , ' answered the boy ; ' I have been wandering all day in the forest , and did not know how to get home again .
` Come with me , you must be hungry as well as tired , ' said the magician , and led the way to his house , where the guest flung himself on a bed , and went fast asleep .
But his host returned to the forest to get some food , for the larder was empty .
While he was absent the housekeeper went to the boy 's room and tried to wake him .
She stamped on the floor , and shook him and called to him , telling him that he was in great danger , and must take flight at once .
But nothing would rouse him , and if he did ever open his eyes he shut them again directly .
Soon after , the magician came back from the forest , and told the housekeeper to bring them something to eat .
The meal was quickly ready , and the magician called to the boy to come down and eat it , but he could not be wakened , and they had to sit down to supper without him .
By-and-by the magician went out into the wood again for some more hunting , and on his return he tried afresh to waken the youth .
But finding it quite impossible , he went back for the third time to the forest .
While he was absent the boy woke up and dressed himself .
Then he came downstairs and began to talk to the housekeeper .
The girl had heard how he had saved her master 's life , so she said nothing more about his running away , but instead told him that if the magician offered him the choice of a reward , he was to ask for the horse which stood in the third stall of the stable .
By-and-by the old man came back and they all sat down to dinner .
When they had finished the magician said : ` Now , my son , tell me what you will have as the reward of your courage ? '
` Give me the horse that stands in the third stall of your stable , ' answered the youth .
` For I have a long way to go before I get home , and my feet will not carry me so far . '
` Ah !
my son , ' replied the magician , ` it is the best horse in my stable that you want !
Will not anything else please you as well ? '
But the youth declared that it was the horse , and the horse only , that he desired , and in the end the old man gave way .
And besides the horse , the magician gave him a zither , a fiddle , and a flute , saying : ` If you are in danger , touch the zither ; and if no one comes to your aid , then play on the fiddle ; but if that brings no help , blow on the flute . '
The youth thanked the magician , and fastening his treasures about him mounted the horse and rode off .
He had already gone some miles when , to his great surprise , the horse spoke , and said : ` It is no use your returning home just now , your father will only beat you .
Let us visit a few towns first , and something lucky will be sure to happen to us . '
This advice pleased the boy , for he felt himself almost a man by this time , and thought it was high time he saw the world .
When they entered the capital of the country everyone stopped to admire the beauty of the horse .
Even the king heard of it , and came to see the splendid creature with his own eyes .
Indeed , he wanted directly to buy it , and told the youth he would give any price he liked .
The young man hesitated for a moment , but before he could speak , the horse contrived to whisper to him : ` Do not sell me , but ask the king to take me to his stable , and feed me there ; then his other horses will become just as beautiful as I. ' The king was delighted when he was told what the horse had said , and took the animal at once to the stables , and placed it in his own particular stall .
Sure enough , the horse had scarcely eaten a mouthful of corn out of the manger , when the rest of the horses seemed to have undergone a transformation .
Some of them were old favourites which the king had ridden in many wars , and they bore the signs of age and of service .
But now they arched their heads , and pawed the ground with their slender legs as they had been wont to do in days long gone by .
The king 's heart beat with delight , but the old groom who had had the care of them stood crossly by , and eyed the owner of this wonderful creature with hate and envy .
Not a day passed without his bringing some story against the youth to his master , but the king understood all about the matter and paid no attention .
At last the groom declared that the young man had boasted that he could find the king 's war horse which had strayed into the forest several years ago , and had not been heard of since .
Now the king had never ceased to mourn for his horse , so this time he listened to the tale which the groom had invented , and sent for the youth .
` Find me my horse in three days , ' said he , ` or it will be the worse for you . '
The youth was thunderstruck at this command , but he only bowed , and went off at once to the stable .
` Do not worry yourself , ' answered his own horse .
` Ask the king to give you a hundred oxen , and to let them be killed and cut into small pieces .
Then we will start on our journey , and ride till we reach a certain river .
There a horse will come up to you , but take no notice of him .
Soon another will appear , and this also you must leave alone , but when the third horse shows itself , throw my bridle over it . '
Everything happened just as the horse had said , and the third horse was safely bridled .
Then the other horse spoke again : ` The magician 's raven will try to eat us as we ride away , but throw it some of the oxen 's flesh , and then I will gallop like the wind , and carry you safe out of the dragon 's clutches . '
So the young man did as he was told , and brought the horse back to the king .
The old stableman was very jealous , when he heard of it , and wondered what he could do to injure the youth in the eyes of his royal master .
At last he hit upon a plan , and told the king that the young man had boasted that he could bring home the king 's wife , who had vanished many months before , without leaving a trace behind her .
Then the king bade the young man come into his presence , and desired him to fetch the queen home again , as he had boasted he could do .
And if he failed , his head would pay the penalty .
The poor youth 's heart stood still as he listened .
Find the queen ?
But how was he to do that , when nobody in the palace had been able to do so !
Slowly he walked to the stable , and laying his head on his horse 's shoulder , he said : ` The king has ordered me to bring his wife home again , and how can I do that when she disappeared so long ago , and no one can tell me anything about her ? '
` Cheer up ! '
answered the horse , ` we will manage to find her .
You have only got to ride me back to the same river that we went to yesterday , and I will plunge into it and take my proper shape again .
For I am the king 's wife , who was turned into a horse by the magician from whom you saved me . '
Joyfully the young man sprang into the saddle and rode away to the banks of the river .
Then he threw himself off , and waited while the horse plunged in .
The moment it dipped its head into the water its black skin vanished , and the most beautiful woman in the world was floating on the water .
She came smiling towards the youth , and held out her hand , and he took it and led her back to the palace .
Great was the king 's surprise and happiness when he beheld his lost wife stand before him , and in gratitude to her rescuer he loaded him with gifts .
You would have thought that after this the poor youth would have been left in peace ; but no , his enemy the stableman hated him as much as ever , and laid a new plot for his undoing .
This time he presented himself before the king and told him that the youth was so puffed up with what he had done that he had declared he would seize the king 's throne for himself .
At this news the king waxed so furious that he ordered a gallows to be erected at once , and the young man to be hanged without a trial .
He was not even allowed to speak in his own defence , but on the very steps of the gallows he sent a message to the king and begged , as a last favour , that he might play a tune on his zither .
Leave was given him , and taking the instrument from under his cloak he touched the strings .
Scarcely had the first notes sounded than the hangman and his helper began to dance , and the louder grew the music the higher they capered , till at last they cried for mercy .
But the youth paid no heed , and the tunes rang out more merrily than before , and by the time the sun set they both sank on the ground exhausted , and declared that the hanging must be put off till to-morrow .
The story of the zither soon spread through the town , and on the following morning the king and his whole court and a large crowd of people were gathered at the foot of the gallows to see the youth hanged .
Once more he asked a favour -- permission to play on his fiddle , and this the king was graciously pleased to grant .
But with the first notes , the leg of every man in the crowd was lifted high , and they danced to the sound of the music the whole day till darkness fell , and there was no light to hang the musician by .
The third day came , and the youth asked leave to play on his flute .
` No , no , ' said the king , ` you made me dance all day yesterday , and if I do it again it will certainly be my death .
You shall play no more tunes .
Quick !
the rope round his neck . '
At these words the young man looked so sorrowful that the courtiers said to the king : ` He is very young to die .
Let him play a tune if it will make him happy . '
So , very unwillingly , the king gave him leave ; but first he had himself bound to a big fir tree , for fear that he should be made to dance .
When he was made fast , the young man began to blow softly on his flute , and bound though he was , the king 's body moved to the sound , up and down the fir tree till his clothes were in tatters , and the skin nearly rubbed off his back .
But the youth had no pity , and went on blowing , till suddenly the old magician appeared and asked : ` What danger are you in , my son , that you have sent for me ? '
` They want to hang me , ' answered the young man ; ` the gallows are all ready and the hangman is only waiting for me to stop playing . '
` Oh , I will put that right , ' said the magician ; and taking the gallows , he tore it up and flung it into the air , and no one knows where it came down .
` Who has ordered you to be hanged ? '
asked he .
The young man pointed to the king , who was still bound to the fir ; and without wasting words the magician took hold of the tree also , and with a mighty heave both fir and man went spinning through the air , and vanished in the clouds after the gallows .
Then the youth was declared to be free , and the people elected him for their king ; and the stable helper drowned himself from envy , for , after all , if it had not been for him the young man would have remained poor all the days of his life .
-LSB- From Finnische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Strong Prince Once upon a time there lived a king who was so fond of wine that he could not go to sleep unless he knew he had a great flaskful tied to his bed-post .
All day long he drank till he was too stupid to attend to his business , and everything in the kingdom went to rack and ruin .
But one day an accident happened to him , and he was struck on the head by a falling bough , so that he fell from his horse and lay dead upon the ground .
His wife and son mourned his loss bitterly , for , in spite of his faults , he had always been kind to them .
So they abandoned the crown and forsook their country , not knowing or caring where they went .
At length they wandered into a forest , and being very tired , sat down under a tree to eat some bread that they had brought with them .
When they had finished the queen said : ` My son , I am thirsty ; fetch me some water . '
The prince got up at once and went to a brook which he heard gurgling near at hand .
He stooped and filled his hat with the water , which he brought to his mother ; then he turned and followed the stream up to its source in a rock , where it bubbled out clear and fresh and cold .
He knelt down to take a draught from the deep pool below the rock , when he saw the reflection of a sword hanging from the branch of a tree over his head .
The young man drew back with a start ; but in a moment he climbed the tree , cutting the rope which held the sword , and carried the weapon to his mother .
The queen was greatly surprised at the sight of anything so splendid in such a lonely place , and took it in her hands to examine it closely .
It was of curious workmanship , wrought with gold , and on its handle was written : ` The man who can buckle on this sword will become stronger than other men . '
The queen 's heart swelled with joy as she read these words , and she bade her son lose no time in testing their truth .
So he fastened it round his waist , and instantly a glow of strength seemed to run through his veins .
He took hold of a thick oak tree and rooted it up as easily as if it had been a weed .
This discovery put new life into the queen and her son , and they continued their walk through the forest .
But night was drawing on , and the darkness grew so thick that it seemed as if it could be cut with a knife .
They did not want to sleep in the wood , for they were afraid of wolves and other wild beasts , so they groped their way along , hand in hand , till the prince tripped over something which lay across the path .
He could not see what it was , but stooped down and tried to lift it .
The thing was very heavy , and he thought his back would break under the strain .
At last with a great heave he moved it out of the road , and as it fell he knew it was a huge rock .
Behind the rock was a cave which it was quite clear was the home of some robbers , though not one of the band was there .
Hastily putting out the fire which burned brightly at the back , and bidding his mother come in and keep very still , the prince began to pace up and down , listening for the return of the robbers .
But he was very sleepy , and in spite of all his efforts he felt he could not keep awake much longer , when he heard the sound of the robbers returning , shouting and singing as they marched along .
Soon the singing ceased , and straining his ears he heard them discussing anxiously what had become of their cave , and why they could not see the fire as usual .
` This must be the place , ' said a voice , which the prince took to be that of the captain .
` Yes , I feel the ditch before the entrance .
Someone forgot to pile up the fire before we left and it has burnt itself out !
But it is all right .
Let every man jump across , and as he does so cry out `` Hop !
I am here . ''
I will go last .
Now begin . '
The man who stood nearest jumped across , but he had no time to give the call which the captain had ordered , for with one swift , silent stroke of the prince 's sword , his head rolled into a corner .
Then the young man cried instead , ` Hop !
I am here . '
The second man , hearing the signal , leapt the ditch in confidence , and was met by the same fate , and in a few minutes eleven of the robbers lay dead , and there remained only the captain .
Now the captain had wound round his neck the shawl of his lost wife , and the stroke of the prince 's sword fell harmless .
Being very cunning , however , he made no resistance , and rolled over as if he were as dead as the other men .
Still , the prince was no fool , and wondered if indeed he was as dead as he seemed to be ; but the captain lay so stiff and stark , that at last he was taken in .
The prince next dragged the headless bodies into a chamber in the cave , and locked the door .
Then he and his mother ransacked the place for some food , and when they had eaten it they lay down and slept in peace .
With the dawn they were both awake again , and found that , instead of the cave which they had come to the night before , they now were in a splendid castle , full of beautiful rooms .
The prince went round all these and carefully locked them up , bidding his mother take care of the keys while he was hunting .
Unfortunately , the queen , like all women , could not bear to think that there was anything which she did not know .
So the moment that her son had turned his back , she opened the doors of all the rooms , and peeped in , till she came to the one where the robbers lay .
But if the sight of the blood on the ground turned her faint , the sight of the robber captain walking up and down was a greater shock still .
She quickly turned the key in the lock , and ran back to the chamber she had slept in .
Soon after her son came in , bringing with him a large bear , which he had killed for supper .
As there was enough food to last them for many days , the prince did not hunt the next morning , but , instead , began to explore the castle .
He found that a secret way led from it into the forest ; and following the path , he reached another castle larger and more splendid than the one belonging to the robbers .
He knocked at the door with his fist , and said that he wanted to enter ; but the giant , to whom the castle belonged , only answered : ' I know who you are .
I have nothing to do with robbers . ' '
I am no robber , ' answered the prince . '
I am the son of a king , and I have killed all the band .
If you do not open to me at once I will break in the door , and your head shall go to join the others . '
He waited a little , but the door remained shut as tightly as before .
Then he just put his shoulder to it , and immediately the wood began to crack .
When the giant found that it was no use keeping it shut , he opened it , saying : ' I see you are a brave youth .
Let there be peace between us . '
And the prince was glad to make peace , for he had caught a glimpse of the giant 's beautiful daughter , and from that day he often sought the giant 's house .
Now the queen led a dull life all alone in the castle , and to amuse herself she paid visits to the robber captain , who flattered her till at last she agreed to marry him .
But as she was much afraid of her son , she told the robber that the next time the prince went to bathe in the river , he was to steal the sword from its place above the bed , for without it the young man would have no power to punish him for his boldness .
The robber captain thought this good counsel , and the next morning , when the young man went to bathe , he unhooked the sword from its nail and buckled it round his waist .
On his return to the castle , the prince found the robber waiting for him on the steps , waving the sword above his head , and knowing that some horrible fate was in store , fell on his knees and begged for mercy .
But he might as well have tried to squeeze blood out of a stone .
The robber , indeed , granted him his life , but took out both his eyes , which he thrust into the prince 's hand , saying brutally : ` Here , you had better keep them !
You may find them useful ! '
Weeping , the blind youth felt his way to the giant 's house , and told him all the story .
The giant was full of pity for the poor young man , but inquired anxiously what he had done with the eyes .
The prince drew them out of his pocket , and silently handed them to the giant , who washed them well , and then put them back in the prince 's head .
For three days he lay in utter darkness ; then the light began to come back , till soon he saw as well as ever .
But though he could not rejoice enough over the recovery of his eyes , he bewailed bitterly the loss of his sword , and that it should have fallen to the lot of his bitter enemy .
` Never mind , my friend , ' said the giant , ' I will get it back for you . '
And he sent for the monkey who was his head servant .
` Tell the fox and the squirrel that they are to go with you , and fetch me back the prince 's sword , ' ordered he .
The three servants set out at once , one seated on the back of the others , the ape , who disliked walking , being generally on top .
Directly they came to the window of the robber captain 's room , the monkey sprang from the backs of the fox and the squirrel , and climbed in .
The room was empty , and the sword hanging from a nail .
He took it down , and buckling it round his waist , as he had seen the prince do , swung himself down again , and mounting on the backs of his two companions , hastened to his master .
The giant bade him give the sword to the prince , who girded himself with it , and returned with all speed to the castle .
` Come out , you rascal !
come out , you villain ! '
cried he , ` and answer to me for the wrong you have done .
I will show you who is the master in this house ! '
The noise he made brought the robber into the room .
He glanced up to where the sword usually hung , but it was gone ; and instinctively he looked at the prince 's hand , where he saw it gleaming brightly .
In his turn he fell on his knees to beg for mercy , but it was too late .
As he had done to the prince , so the prince did to him , and , blinded , he was thrust forth , and fell down a deep hole , where he is to this day .
His mother the prince sent back to her father , and never would see her again .
After this he returned to the giant , and said to him : ` My friend , add one more kindness to those you have already heaped on me .
Give me your daughter as my wife . '
So they were married , and the wedding feast was so splendid that there was not a kingdom in the world that did not hear of it .
And the prince never went back to his father 's throne , but lived peacefully with his wife in the forest , where , if they are not dead , they are living still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Volksmarchen . -RSB-
The Treasure Seeker Once , long ago , in a little town that lay in the midst of high hills and wild forests , a party of shepherds sat one night in the kitchen of the inn talking over old times , and telling of the strange things that had befallen them in their youth .
Presently up spoke the silver-haired Father Martin .
` Comrades , ' said he , ` you have had wonderful adventures ; but I will tell you something still more astonishing that happened to myself .
When I was a young lad I had no home and no one to care for me , and I wandered from village to village all over the country with my knapsack on my back ; but as soon as I was old enough I took service with a shepherd in the mountains , and helped him for three years .
One autumn evening as we drove the flock homeward ten sheep were missing , and the master bade me go and seek them in the forest .
I took my dog with me , but he could find no trace of them , though we searched among the bushes till night fell ; and then , as I did not know the country and could not find my way home in the dark , I decided to sleep under a tree .
At midnight my dog became uneasy , and began to whine and creep close to me with his tail between his legs ; by this I knew that something was wrong , and , looking about , I saw in the bright moonlight a figure standing beside me .
It seemed to be a man with shaggy hair , and a long beard which hung down to his knees .
He had a garland upon his head , and a girdle of oak-leaves about his body , and carried an uprooted fir-tree in his right hand .
I shook like an aspen leaf at the sight , and my spirit quaked for fear .
The strange being beckoned with his hand that I should follow him ; but as I did not stir from the spot he spoke in a hoarse , grating voice : `` Take courage , fainthearted shepherd .
I am the Treasure Seeker of the mountain .
If you will come with me you shall dig up much gold . ''
` Though I was still deadly cold with terror I plucked up my courage and said : `` Get away from me , evil spirit ; I do not desire your treasures . ''
` At this the spectre grinned in my face and cried mockingly : ' `` Simpleton !
Do you scorn your good fortune ?
Well , then , remain a ragamuffin all your days . ''
` He turned as if to go away from me , then came back again and said : `` Bethink yourself , bethink yourself , rogue .
I will fill your knapsack -- I will fill your pouch . '' '
`` Away from me , monster , '' I answered , `` I will have nothing to do with you . ''
` When the apparition saw that I gave no heed to him he ceased to urge me , saying only : `` Some day you will rue this , '' and looked at me sadly .
Then he cried : `` Listen to what I say , and lay it well to heart , it may be of use to you when you come to your senses .
A vast treasure of gold and precious stones lies in safety deep under the earth .
At twilight and at high noon it is hidden , but at midnight it may be dug up .
For seven hundred years have I watched over it , but now my time has come ; it is common property , let him find it who can .
So I thought to give it into your hand , having a kindness for you because you feed your flock upon my mountain . ''
` Thereupon the spectre told me exactly where the treasure lay , and how to find it .
It might be only yesterday so well do I remember every word he spoke . '
`` Go towards the little mountains , '' said he , `` and ask there for the Black King 's Valley , and when you come to a tiny brook follow the stream till you reach the stone bridge beside the saw-mill .
Do not cross the bridge , but keep to your right along the bank till a high rock stands before you .
A bow-shot from that you will discover a little hollow like a grave .
When you find this hollow dig it out ; but it will be hard work , for the earth has been pressed down into it with care .
Still , work away till you find solid rock on all sides of you , and soon you will come to a square slab of stone ; force it out of the wall , and you will stand at the entrance of the treasure house .
Into this opening you must crawl , holding a lamp in your mouth .
Keep your hands free lest you knock your nose against a stone , for the way is steep and the stones sharp .
If it bruises your knees never mind ; you are on the road to fortune .
Do not rest till you reach a wide stairway , down which you will go till you come out into a spacious hall , in which there are three doors ; two of them stand open , the third is fastened with locks and bolts of iron .
Do not go through the door to the right lest you disturb the bones of the lords of the treasure .
Neither must you go through the door to the left , it leads to the snake 's chamber , where adders and serpents lodge ; but open the fast-closed door by means of the well-known spring-root , which you must on no account forget to take with you , or all your trouble will be for naught , for no crowbar or mortal tools will help you .
If you want to procure the root ask a wood-seller ; it is a common thing for hunters to need , and it is not hard to find .
If the door bursts open suddenly with great crackings and groanings do not be afraid , the noise is caused by the power of the magic root , and you will not be hurt .
Now trim your lamp that it may not fail you , for you will be nearly blinded by the flash and glitter of the gold and precious stones on the walls and pillars of the vault ; but beware how you stretch out a hand towards the jewels !
In the midst of the cavern stands a copper chest , in that you will find gold and silver , enough and to spare , and you may help yourself to your heart 's content .
If you take as much as you can carry you will have sufficient to last your lifetime , and you may return three times ; but woe betide you if you venture to come a fourth time .
You would have your trouble for your pains , and would be punished for your greediness by falling down the stone steps and breaking your leg .
Do not neglect each time to heap back the loose earth which concealed the entrance of the king 's treasure chamber . ''
` As the apparition left off speaking my dog pricked up his ears and began to bark .
I heard the crack of a carter 's whip and the noise of wheels in the distance , and when I looked again the spectre had disappeared . '
So ended the shepherd 's tale ; and the landlord who was listening with the rest , said shrewdly : ` Tell us now , Father Martin , did you go to the mountain and find what the spirit promised you ; or is it a fable ? '
` Nay , nay , ' answered the graybeard . '
I can not tell if the spectre lied , for never a step did I go towards finding the hollow , for two reasons : -- one was that my neck was too precious for me to risk it in such a snare as that ; the other , that no one could ever tell me where the spring-root was to be found . '
Then Blaize , another aged shepherd , lifted up his voice .
`` Tis a pity , Father Martin , that your secret has grown old with you .
If you had told it forty years ago truly you would not long have been lacking the spring-root .
Even though you will never climb the mountain now , I will tell you , for a joke , how it is to be found .
The easiest way to get it is by the help of a black woodpecker .
Look , in the spring , where she builds her nest in a hole in a tree , and when the time comes for her brood to fly off block up the entrance to the nest with a hard sod , and lurk in ambush behind the tree till the bird returns to feed her nestlings .
When she perceives that she can not get into her nest she will fly round the tree uttering cries of distress , and then dart off towards the sun-setting .
When you see her do this , take a scarlet cloak , or if that be lacking to you , buy a few yards of scarlet cloth , and hurry back to the tree before the woodpecker returns with the spring-root in her beak .
So soon as she touches with the root the sod that blocks the nest , it will fly violently out of the hole .
Then spread the red cloth quickly under the tree , so that the woodpecker may think it is a fire , and in her terror drop the root .
Some people really light a fire and strew spikenard blossoms in it ; but that is a clumsy method , for if the flames do not shoot up at the right moment away will fly the woodpecker , carrying the root with her . ''
The party had listened with interest to this speech , but by the time it was ended the hour was late , and they went their ways homeward , leaving only one man who had sat unheeded in a corner the whole evening through .
Master Peter Bloch had once been a prosperous innkeeper , and a master-cook ; but he had gone steadily down in the world for some time , and was now quite poor .
Formerly he had been a merry fellow , fond of a joke , and in the art of cooking had no equal in the town .
He could make fish-jelly , and quince fritters , and even wafer-cakes ; and he gilded the ears of all his boars ' heads .
Peter had looked about him for a wife early in life , but unluckily his choice fell upon a woman whose evil tongue was well known in the town .
Ilse was hated by everybody , and the young folks would go miles out of their way rather than meet her , for she had some ill-word for everyone .
Therefore , when Master Peter came along , and let himself be taken in by her boasted skill as a housewife , she jumped at his offer , and they were married the next day .
But they had not got home before they began to quarrel .
In the joy of his heart Peter had tasted freely of his own good wine , and as the bride hung upon his arm he stumbled and fell , dragging her down with him ; whereupon she beat him soundly , and the neighbours said truly that things did not promise well for Master Peter 's comfort .
Even when the ill-matched couple were presently blessed with children , his happiness was but short lived , the savage temper of his quarrelsome wife seemed to blight them from the first , and they died like little kids in a cold winter .
Though Master Peter had no great wealth to leave behind him , still it was sad to him to be childless ; and he would bemoan himself to his friends , when he laid one baby after another in the grave , saying : ` The lightning has been among the cherry-blossoms again , so there will be no fruit to grow ripe . '
But , by-and-by , he had a little daughter so strong and healthy that neither her mother 's temper nor her father 's spoiling could keep her from growing up tall and beautiful .
Meanwhile the fortunes of the family had changed .
From his youth up , Master Peter had hated trouble ; when he had money he spent it freely , and fed all the hungry folk who asked him for bread .
If his pockets were empty he borrowed of his neighbours , but he always took good care to prevent his scolding wife from finding out that he had done so .
His motto was : ` It will all come right in the end ' ; but what it did come to was ruin for Master Peter .
He was at his wits ' end to know how to earn an honest living , for try as he might ill-luck seemed to pursue him , and he lost one post after another , till at last all he could do was to carry sacks of corn to the mill for his wife , who scolded him well if he was slow about it , and grudged him his portion of food .
This grieved the tender heart of his pretty daughter , who loved him dearly , and was the comfort of his life .
Peter was thinking of her as he sat in the inn kitchen and heard the shepherds talking about the buried treasure , and for her sake he resolved to go and seek for it .
Before he rose from the landlord 's arm-chair his plan was made , and Master Peter went home more joyful and full of hope than he had been for many a long day ; but on the way he suddenly remembered that he was not yet possessed of the magic spring-root , and he stole into the house with a heavy heart , and threw himself down upon his hard straw bed .
He could neither sleep nor rest ; but as soon as it was light he got up and wrote down exactly all that was to be done to find the treasure , that he might not forget anything , and when it lay clear and plain before his eyes he comforted himself with the thought that , though he must do the rough work for his wife during one more winter at least , he would not have to tread the path to the mill for the rest of his life .
Soon he heard his wife 's harsh voice singing its morning song as she went about her household affairs , scolding her daughter the while .
She burst open his door while he was still dressing : ` Well , Toper ! '
was her greeting , ` have you been drinking all night , wasting money that you steal from my housekeeping ?
For shame , drunkard ! '
Master Peter , who was well used to this sort of talk , did not disturb himself , but waited till the storm blew over , then he said calmly : ` Do not be annoyed , dear wife .
I have a good piece of business in hand which may turn out well for us . '
` You with a good business ? '
cried she , ` you are good for nothing but talk ! ' '
I am making my will , ' said he , ` that when my hour comes my house may be in order . '
These unexpected words cut his daughter to the heart ; she remembered that all night long she had dreamed of a newly dug grave , and at this thought she broke out into loud lamentations .
But her mother only cried : ` Wretch !
have you not wasted goods and possessions , and now do you talk of making a will ? '
And she seized him like a fury , and tried to scratch out his eyes .
But by-and-by the quarrel was patched up , and everything went on as before .
From that day Peter saved up every penny that his daughter Lucia gave him on the sly , and bribed the boys of his acquaintance to spy out a black woodpecker 's nest for him .
He sent them into the woods and fields , but instead of looking for a nest they only played pranks on him .
They led him miles over hill and vale , stock and stone , to find a raven 's brood , or a nest of squirrels in a hollow tree , and when he was angry with them they laughed in his face and ran away .
This went on for some time , but at last one of the boys spied out a woodpecker in the meadow-lands among the wood-pigeons , and when he had found her nest in a half-dead alder tree , came running to Peter with the news of his discovery .
Peter could hardly believe his good fortune , and went quickly to see for himself if it was really true ; and when he reached the tree there certainly was a bird flying in and out as if she had a nest in it .
Peter was overjoyed at this fortunate discovery , and instantly set himself to obtain a red cloak .
Now in the whole town there was only one red cloak , and that belonged to a man of whom nobody ever willingly asked a favour -- Master Hammerling the hangman .
It cost Master Peter many struggles before he could bring himself to visit such a person , but there was no help for it , and , little as he liked it , he ended by making his request to the hangman , who was flattered that so respectable a man as Peter should borrow his robe of office , and willingly lent it to him .
Peter now had all that was necessary to secure the magic root ; he stopped up the entrance to the nest , and everything fell out exactly as Blaize had foretold .
As soon as the woodpecker came back with the root in her beak out rushed Master Peter from behind the tree and displayed the fiery red cloak so adroitly that the terrified bird dropped the root just where it could be easily seen .
All Peter 's plans had succeeded , and he actually held in his hand the magic root -- that master-key which would unlock all doors , and bring its possessor unheard-of luck .
His thoughts now turned to the mountain , and he secretly made preparations for his journey .
He took with him only a staff , a strong sack , and a little box which his daughter Lucia had given him .
It happened that on the very day Peter had chosen for setting out , Lucia and her mother went off early to the town , leaving him to guard the house ; but in spite of that he was on the point of taking his departure when it occurred to him that it might be as well first to test the much-vaunted powers of the magic root for himself .
Dame Ilse had a strong cupboard with seven locks built into the wall of her room , in which she kept all the money she had saved , and she wore the key of it always hung about her neck .
Master Peter had no control at all of the money affairs of the household , so the contents of this secret hoard were quite unknown to him , and this seemed to be a good opportunity for finding out what they were .
He held the magic root to the keyhole , and to his astonishment heard all the seven locks creaking and turning , the door flew suddenly wide open , and his greedy wife 's store of gold pieces lay before his eyes .
He stood still in sheer amazement , not knowing which to rejoice over most -- this unexpected find , or the proof of the magic root 's real power ; but at last he remembered that it was quite time to be starting on his journey .
So , filling his pockets with the gold , he carefully locked the empty cupboard again and left the house without further delay .
When Dame Ilse and her daughter returned they wondered to find the house door shut , and Master Peter nowhere to be seen .
They knocked and called , but nothing stirred within but the house cat , and at last the blacksmith had to be fetched to open the door .
Then the house was searched from garret to cellar , but no Master Peter was to be found .
` Who knows ? '
cried Dame Ilse at last , ` the wretch may have been idling in some tavern since early morning . '
Then a sudden thought startled her , and she felt for her keys .
Suppose they had fallen into her good-for-nothing husband 's hands and he had helped himself to her treasure !
But no , the keys were safe in their usual place , and the cupboard looked quite untouched .
Mid-day came , then evening , then midnight , and still no Master Peter appeared , and the matter became really serious .
Dame Ilse knew right well what a torment she had been to her husband , and remorse caused her the gloomiest forebodings .
` Ah !
Lucia , ' she cried , ' I greatly fear that your father has done himself a mischief . '
And they sat till morning weeping over their own fancies .
As soon as it was light they searched every corner of the house again , and examined every nail in the wall and every beam ; but , luckily , Master Peter was not hanging from any of them .
After that the neighbours went out with long poles to fish in every ditch and pond , but they found nothing , and then Dame Ilse gave up the idea of ever seeing her husband again and very soon consoled herself , only wondering how the sacks of corn were to be carried to the mill in future .
She decided to buy a strong ass to do the work , and having chosen one , and after some bargaining with the owner as to its price , she went to the cupboard in the wall to fetch the money .
But what were her feelings when she perceived that every shelf lay empty and bare before her !
For a moment she stood bewildered , then broke into such frightful ravings that Lucia ran to her in alarm ; but as soon as she heard of the disappearance of the money she was heartily glad , and no longer feared that her father had come to any harm , but understood that he must have gone out into the world to seek his fortune in some new way .
About a month after this , someone knocked at Dame Ilse 's door one day , and she went to see if it was a customer for meal ; but in stepped a handsome young man , dressed like a duke 's son , who greeted her respectfully , and asked after her pretty daughter as if he were an old friend , though she could not remember having ever set eyes upon him before .
However , she invited him to step into the house and be seated while he unfolded his business .
With a great air of mystery he begged permission to speak to the fair Lucia , of whose skill in needlework he had heard so much , as he had a commission to give her .
Dame Ilse had her own opinion as to what kind of commission it was likely to be -- brought by a young stranger to a pretty maiden ; however , as the meeting would be under her own eye , she made no objection , but called to her industrious daughter , who left off working and came obediently ; but when she saw the stranger she stopped short , blushing , and casting down her eyes .
He looked at her fondly , and took her hand , which she tried to draw away , crying : ` Ah !
Friedlin , why are you here ?
I thought you were a hundred miles away .
Are you come to grieve me again ? '
` No , dearest girl , ' answered he ; ' I am come to complete your happiness and my own .
Since we last met my fortune has utterly changed ; I am no longer the poor vagabond that I was then .
My rich uncle has died , leaving me money and goods in plenty , so that I dare to present myself to your mother as a suitor for your hand .
That I love you I know well ; if you can love me I am indeed a happy man . '
Lucia 's pretty blue eyes had looked up shyly as he spoke , and now a smile parted her rosy lips ; and she stole a glance at her mother to see what she thought about it all ; but the dame stood lost in amazement to find that her daughter , whom she could have declared had never been out of her sight , was already well acquainted with the handsome stranger , and quite willing to be his bride .
Before she had done staring , this hasty wooer had smoothed his way by covering the shining table with gold pieces as a wedding gift to the bride 's mother , and had filled Lucia 's apron into the bargain ; after which the dame made no difficulties , and the matter was speedily settled .
While Ilse gathered up the gold and hid it away safely , the lovers whispered together , and what Friedlin told her seemed to make Lucia every moment more happy and contented .
Now a great hurry-burly began in the house , and preparations for the wedding went on apace .
A few days later a heavily laden waggon drove up , and out of it came so many boxes and bales that Dame Ilse was lost in wonder at the wealth of her future son-in-law .
The day for the wedding was chosen , and all their friends and neighbours were bidden to the feast .
As Lucia was trying on her bridal wreath she said to her mother : ` This wedding-garland would please me indeed if father Peter could lead me to the church .
If only he could come back again !
Here we are rolling in riches while he may be nibbling at hunger 's table . '
And the very idea of such a thing made her weep , while even Dame Ilse said : ' I should not be sorry myself to see him come back -- there is always something lacking in a house when the good man is away . '
But the fact was that she was growing quite tired of having no one to scold .
And what do you think happened ?
On the very eve of the wedding a man pushing a wheelbarrow arrived at the city gate , and paid toll upon a barrel of nails which it contained , and then made the best of his way to the bride 's dwelling and knocked at the door .
The bride herself peeped out of the window to see who it could be , and there stood father Peter !
Then there was great rejoicing in the house ; Lucia ran to embrace him , and even Dame Ilse held out her hand in welcome , and only said : ` Rogue , mend your ways , ' when she remembered the empty treasure cupboard .
Father Peter greeted the bridegroom , looking at him shrewdly , while the mother and daughter hastened to say all they knew in his favour , and appeared to be satisfied with him as a son-in-law .
When Dame Ilse had set something to eat before her husband , she was curious to hear his adventures , and questioned him eagerly as to why he had gone away .
` God bless my native place , ' said he . '
I have been marching through the country , and have tried every kind of work , but now I have found a job in the iron trade ; only , so far , I have put more into it than I have earned by it .
This barrel of nails is my whole fortune , which I wish to give as my contribution towards the bride 's house furnishing . '
This speech roused Dame Ilse to anger , and she broke out into such shrill reproaches that the bystanders were fairly deafened , and Friedlin hastily offered Master Peter a home with Lucia and himself , promising that he should live in comfort , and be always welcome .
So Lucia had her heart 's desire , and father Peter led her to the church next day , and the marriage took place very happily .
Soon afterwards the young people settled in a fine house which Friedlin had bought , and had a garden and meadows , a fishpond , and a hill covered with vines , and were as happy as the day was long .
Father Peter also stayed quietly with them , living , as everybody believed , upon the generosity of his rich son-in law .
No one suspected that his barrel of nails was the real ` Horn of Plenty , ' from which all this prosperity overflowed .
Peter had made the journey to the treasure mountain successfully , without being found out by anybody .
He had enjoyed himself by the way , and taken his own time , until he actually reached the little brook in the valley which it had cost him some trouble to find .
Then he pressed on eagerly , and soon came to the little hollow in the wood ; down he went , burrowing like a mole into the earth ; the magic root did its work , and at last the treasure lay before his eyes .
You may imagine how gaily Peter filled his sack with as much gold as he could carry , and how he staggered up the seventy-seven steps with a heart full of hope and delight .
He did not quite trust the gnome 's promises of safety , and was in such haste to find himself once more in the light of day that he looked neither to the right nor the left , and could not afterwards remember whether the walls and pillars had sparkled with jewels or not .
However , all went well -- he neither saw nor heard anything alarming ; the only thing that happened was that the great iron-barred door shut with a crash as soon as he was fairly outside it , and then he remembered that he had left the magic root behind him , so he could not go back for another load of treasure .
But even that did not trouble Peter much ; he was quite satisfied with what he had already .
After he had faithfully done everything according to Father Martin 's instructions , and pressed the earth well back into the hollow , he sat down to consider how he could bring his treasure back to his native place , and enjoy it there , without being forced to share it with his scolding wife , who would give him no peace if she once found out about it .
At last , after much thinking , he hit upon a plan .
He carried his sack to the nearest village , and there bought a wheelbarrow , a strong barrel , and a quantity of nails .
Then he packed his gold into the barrel , covered it well with a layer of nails , hoisted it on to the wheelbarrow with some difficulty , and set off with it upon his homeward way .
At one place upon the road he met a handsome young man who seemed by his downcast air to be in some great trouble .
Father Peter , who wished everybody to be as happy as he was himself , greeted him cheerfully , and asked where he was going , to which he answered sadly : ` Into the wide world , good father , or out of it , where ever my feet may chance to carry me . '
` Why out of it ? '
said Peter .
` What has the world been doing to you ? '
` It has done nothing to me , nor I to it , ' he replied .
` Nevertheless there is not anything left in it for me . '
Father Peter did his best to cheer the young man up , and invited him to sup with him at the first inn they came to , thinking that perhaps hunger and poverty were causing the stranger 's trouble .
But when good food was set before him he seemed to forget to eat .
So Peter perceived that what ailed his guest was sorrow of heart , and asked him kindly to tell him his story .
` Where is the good , father ? '
said he .
` You can give me neither help nor comfort . '
` Who knows ? '
answered Master Peter . '
I might be able to do something for you .
Often enough in life help comes to us from the most unexpected quarter . '
The young man , thus encouraged , began his tale . '
I am , ' said he , ' a crossbow-man in the service of a noble count , in whose castle I was brought up .
Not long ago my master went on a journey , and brought back with him , amongst other treasures , the portrait of a fair maiden so sweet and lovely that I lost my heart at first sight of it , and could think of nothing but how I might seek her out and marry her .
The count had told me her name , and where she lived , but laughed at my love , and absolutely refused to give me leave to go in search of her , so I was forced to run away from the castle by night .
I soon reached the little town where the maiden dwelt ; but there fresh difficulties awaited me .
She lived under the care of her mother , who was so severe that she was never allowed to look out of the window , or set her foot outside the door alone , and how to make friends with her I did not know .
But at last I dressed myself as an old woman , and knocked boldly at her door .
The lovely maiden herself opened it , and so charmed me that I came near forgetting my disguise ; but I soon recovered my wits , and begged her to work a fine table-cloth for me , for she is reported to be the best needlewoman in all the country round .
Now I was free to go and see her often under the presence of seeing how the work was going oil , and one day , when her mother had gone to the town , I ventured to throw off my disguise , and tell her of my love .
She was startled at first ; but I persuaded her to listen to me , and I soon saw that I was not displeasing to her , though she scolded me gently for my disobedience to my master , and my deceit in disguising myself .
But when I begged her to marry me , she told me sadly that her mother would scorn a penniless wooer , and implored me to go away at once , lest trouble should fall upon her .
` Bitter as it was to me , I was forced to go when she bade me , and I have wandered about ever since , with grief gnawing at my heart ; for how can a masterless man , without money or goods , ever hope to win the lovely Lucia ? '
Master Peter , who had been listening attentively , pricked up his ears at the sound of his daughter 's name , and very soon found out that it was indeed with her that this young man was so deeply in love .
` Your story is strange indeed , ' said he .
` But where is the father of this maiden -- why do you not ask him for her hand ?
He might well take your part , and be glad to have you for his son-in-law . '
` Alas ! '
said the young man , ` her father is a wandering good-for-naught , who has forsaken wife and child , and gone off -- who knows where ?
The wife complains of him bitterly enough , and scolds my dear maiden when she takes her father 's part . '
Father Peter was somewhat amused by this speech ; but he liked the young man well , and saw that he was the very person he needed to enable him to enjoy his wealth in peace , without being separated from his dear daughter .
` If you will take my advice , ' said he , ' I promise you that you shall marry this maiden whom you love so much , and that before you are many days older . '
` Comrade , ' cried Friedlin indignantly , for he thought Peter did but jest with him , ` it is ill done to mock at an unhappy man ; you had better find someone else who will let himself be taken in with your fine promises . '
And up he sprang , and was going off hastily , when Master Peter caught him by the arm .
` Stay , hothead ! '
he cried ; ` it is no jest , and I am prepared to make good my words . '
Thereupon he showed him the treasure hidden under the nails , and unfolded to him his plan , which was that Friedlin should play the part of the rich son-in-law , and keep a still tongue , that they might enjoy their wealth together in peace .
The young man was overjoyed at this sudden change in his fortunes , and did not know how to thank father Peter for his generosity .
They took the road again at dawn the next morning , and soon reached a town , where Friedlin equipped himself as a gallant wooer should .
Father Peter filled his pockets with gold for the wedding dowry , and agreed with him that when all was settled he should secretly send him word that Peter might send off the waggon load of house plenishings with which the rich bridegroom was to make such a stir in the little town where the bride lived .
As they parted , father Peter 's last commands to Friedlin were to guard well their secret , and not even to tell it to Lucia till she was his wife .
Master Peter long enjoyed the profits of his journey to the mountain , and no rumour of it ever got abroad .
In his old age his prosperity was so great that he himself did not know how rich he was ; but it was always supposed that the money was Friedlin 's .
He and his beloved wife lived in the greatest happiness and peace , and rose to great honour in the town .
And to this day , when the citizens wish to describe a wealthy man , they say : ` As rich as Peter Bloch 's son-in-law ! '
The Cottager And His Cat Once upon a time there lived an old man and his wife in a dirty , tumble-down cottage , not very far from the splendid palace where the king and queen dwelt .
In spite of the wretched state of the hut , which many people declared was too bad even for a pig to live in , the old man was very rich , for he was a great miser , and lucky besides , and would often go without food all day sooner than change one of his beloved gold pieces .
But after a while he found that he had starved himself once too often .
He fell ill , and had no strength to get well again , and in a few days he died , leaving his wife and one son behind him .
The night following his death , the son dreamed that an unknown man appeared to him and said : ` Listen to me ; your father is dead and your mother will soon die , and all their riches will belong to you .
Half of his wealth is ill-gotten , and this you must give back to the poor from whom he squeezed it .
The other half you must throw into the sea .
Watch , however , as the money sinks into the water , and if anything should swim , catch it and keep it , even if it is nothing more than a bit of paper . '
Then the man vanished , and the youth awoke .
The remembrance of his dream troubled him greatly .
He did not want to part with the riches that his father had left him , for he had known all his life what it was to be cold and hungry , and now he had hoped for a little comfort and pleasure .
Still , he was honest and good-hearted , and if his father had come wrongfully by his wealth he felt he could never enjoy it , and at last he made up his mind to do as he had been bidden .
He found out who were the people who were poorest in the village , and spent half of his money in helping them , and the other half he put in his pocket .
From a rock that jutted right out into the sea he flung it in .
In a moment it was out of sight , and no man could have told the spot where it had sunk , except for a tiny scrap of paper floating on the water .
He stretched down carefully and managed to reach it , and on opening it found six shillings wrapped inside .
This was now all the money he had in the world .
The young man stood and looked at it thoughtfully .
` Well , I ca n't do much with this , ' he said to himself ; but , after all , six shillings were better than nothing , and he wrapped them up again and slipped them into his coat .
He worked in his garden for the next few weeks , and he and his mother contrived to live on the fruit and vegetables he got out of it , and then she too died suddenly .
The poor fellow felt very sad when he had laid her in her grave , and with a heavy heart he wandered into the forest , not knowing where he was going .
By-and-by he began to get hungry , and seeing a small hut in front of him , he knocked at the door and asked if they could give him some milk .
The old woman who opened it begged him to come in , adding kindly , that if he wanted a night 's lodging he might have it without its costing him anything .
Two women and three men were at supper when he entered , and silently made room for him to sit down by them .
When he had eaten he began to look about him , and was surprised to see an animal sitting by the fire different from anything he had ever noticed before .
It was grey in colour , and not very big ; but its eyes were large and very bright , and it seemed to be singing in an odd way , quite unlike any animal in the forest .
` What is the name of that strange little creature ? '
asked he .
And they answered , ` We call it a cat . ' '
I should like to buy it -- if it is not too dear , ' said the young man ; ` it would be company for me . '
And they told him that he might have it for six shillings , if he cared to give so much .
The young man took out his precious bit of paper , handed them the six shillings , and the next morning bade them farewell , with the cat lying snugly in his cloak .
For the whole day they wandered through meadows and forests , till in the evening they reached a house .
The young fellow knocked at the door and asked the old man who opened it if he could rest there that night , adding that he had no money to pay for it .
` Then I must give it to you , ' answered the man , and led him into a room where two women and two men were sitting at supper .
One of the women was the old man 's wife , the other his daughter .
He placed the cat on the mantel shelf , and they all crowded round to examine this strange beast , and the cat rubbed itself against them , and held out its paw , and sang to them ; and the women were delighted , and gave it everything that a cat could eat , and a great deal more besides .
After hearing the youth 's story , and how he had nothing in the world left him except his cat , the old man advised him to go to the palace , which was only a few miles distant , and take counsel of the king , who was kind to everyone , and would certainly be his friend .
The young man thanked him , and said he would gladly take his advice ; and early next morning he set out for the royal palace .
He sent a message to the king to beg for an audience , and received a reply that he was to go into the great hall , where he would find his Majesty .
The king was at dinner with his court when the young man entered , and he signed to him to come near .
The youth bowed low , and then gazed in surprise at the crowd of little black creatures who were running about the floor , and even on the table itself .
Indeed , they were so bold that they snatched pieces of food from the King 's own plate , and if he drove them away , tried to bite his hands , so that he could not eat his food , and his courtiers fared no better .
` What sort of animals are these ? '
asked the youth of one of the ladies sitting near him .
` They are called rats , ' answered the king , who had overheard the question , ` and for years we have tried some way of putting an end to them , but it is impossible .
They come into our very beds . '
At this moment something was seen flying through the air .
The cat was on the table , and with two or three shakes a number of rats were lying dead round him .
Then a great scuffling of feet was heard , and in a few minutes the hall was clear .
For some minutes the King and his courtiers only looked at each other in astonishment .
` What kind of animal is that which can work magic of this sort ? '
asked he .
And the young man told him that it was called a cat , and that he had bought it for six shillings .
And the King answered : ` Because of the luck you have brought me , in freeing my palace from the plague which has tormented me for many years , I will give you the choice of two things .
Either you shall be my Prime Minister , or else you shall marry my daughter and reign after me .
Say , which shall it be ? '
` The princess and the kingdom , ' said the young man .
And so it was .
-LSB- From Islandische Marchen . -RSB-
The Prince Who Would Seek Immortality Once upon a time , in the very middle of the middle of a large kingdom , there was a town , and in the town a palace , and in the palace a king .
This king had one son whom his father thought was wiser and cleverer than any son ever was before , and indeed his father had spared no pains to make him so .
He had been very careful in choosing his tutors and governors when he was a boy , and when he became a youth he sent him to travel , so that he might see the ways of other people , and find that they were often as good as his own .
It was now a year since the prince had returned home , for his father felt that it was time that his son should learn how to rule the kingdom which would one day be his .
But during his long absence the prince seemed to have changed his character altogether .
From being a merry and light-hearted boy , he had grown into a gloomy and thoughtful man .
The king knew of nothing that could have produced such an alteration .
He vexed himself about it from morning till night , till at length an explanation occurred to him -- the young man was in love !
Now the prince never talked about his feelings -- for the matter of that he scarcely talked at all ; and the father knew that if he was to come to the bottom of the prince 's dismal face , he would have to begin .
So one day , after dinner , he took his son by the arm and led him into another room , hung entirely with the pictures of beautiful maidens , each one more lovely than the other .
` My dear boy , ' he said , ` you are very sad ; perhaps after all your wanderings it is dull for you here all alone with me .
It would be much better if you would marry , and I have collected here the portraits of the most beautiful women in the world of a rank equal to your own .
Choose which among them you would like for a wife , and I will send an embassy to her father to ask for her hand . '
` Alas !
your Majesty , ' answered the prince , ` it is not love or marriage that makes me so gloomy ; but the thought , which haunts me day and night , that all men , even kings , must die .
Never shall I be happy again till I have found a kingdom where death is unknown .
And I have determined to give myself no rest till I have discovered the Land of Immortality .
The old king heard him with dismay ; things were worse than he thought .
He tried to reason with his son , and told him that during all these years he had been looking forward to his return , in order to resign his throne and its cares , which pressed so heavily upon him .
But it was in vain that he talked ; the prince would listen to nothing , and the following morning buckled on his sword and set forth on his journey .
He had been travelling for many days , and had left his fatherland behind him , when close to the road he came upon a huge tree , and on its topmost bough an eagle was sitting shaking the branches with all his might .
This seemed so strange and so unlike an eagle , that the prince stood still with surprise , and the bird saw him and flew to the ground .
The moment its feet touched the ground he changed into a king .
` Why do you look so astonished ? '
he asked . '
I was wondering why you shook the boughs so fiercely , ' answered the prince . '
